Starchasers


Book One - Starchasers        1
Chapter One - Looking to the Stars        2
Chapter Two - Into the Stars        6
Chapter Three - Into the Night        14
Chapter Four - Mitsari        20
Chapter Five - Lylah        28
Chapter Six - Buyer’s Remorse        33
Chapter Seven - By and Anon        39
Chapter Eight - Foxicea        46
Chapter Nine - Foxicea, Part Two        51
Chapter Ten - Into the Night—Again        58
Chapter Eleven - The Northern Gap        65
Chapter Twelve - The Goza Stad        70
Chapter Thirteen - Trust and Trustworthiness        79
Chapter Fourteen - Outcast Island        84
________________




Book One - Starchasers
	________________




Chapter One - Looking to the Stars
When I go out at night, I incline my head
And see millions of stars, marveling
At how close they have become, wondering
If our forgotten elders also marveled
At how the great distances became small
Due to the will of a box of iron, which
We still don’t entirely comprehend.
—First stanza of The Stars, written by Rafar Etinçelle of Ellada, in the 47th year post-Blot


Bright lights flashed red in the dark bridge of the Kolyan. The sound of an explosion and rending metal behind them immediately preceded the alert that their first transable had been critically damaged. A moment later, a bright light flashed in the video feed as a laser from the Kolyan destroyed their assailant, terminating the alarms but not the alerts. Words seemed to form in the tired minds of the crew as everyone breathed a sigh of relief:
“How in tarnation did we ever come to this?”
A response emerged in the new silence as the red lights revolved endlessly: “Well, Maddic, if I recall…”


 ✸   ✸   ✸


Once again, Ander was attempting to teach those who did not want to be taught. It wasn’t that they didn’t like him; they were his friends. This wasn’t school, after all: it was scouting, Erionalis Scouting Troop 694 Starchasers, and he was their first officer, working with Eagles Airborne Squadron. But nobody was interested in being taught ropework for the umpteenth time. Thus, Ander moved on to another thing on the schedule: missions, those individual activities that scouts did for advancement.
“Alright guys, we’ve got to do something. How about missions? Several of us need to complete one—or many—for advancement. Do any of you have good ideas?”
Bendor Aviel, a white Far Ethnii with bronze-rimmed glasses and short black hair, ceased his freakish expression of intense boredom to look Ander right in the eyes and say with scathing sarcasm: “We don’t have ideas.”
Ander rolled his eyes. “Your entire delivery of that quip clearly shows that you do, in fact, have ideas. But given that you aren’t willing to answer the question, does anybody else have an idea for a mission?”
The person next to Bendor, Kefon el’Deman, put on his goofiest face, pointed his finger into the air, and said wildly, “I know! Let’s fly a spaceship into the sun! That’ll go wonderfully with no problems or consequences whatsoever!”
“Sovereign, that’ll go over about as well as a lead balloon,” said Maddic, a skinny but very tall red-headed Ethnii. “Trust me, I would love to fly a spacecraft, but the adult leaders would never agree to it.”
“Well,” answered Ander, “How about this: we, collectively, as a group, think up another mission that we can realistically perform. If you can, I’ll bring up the spaceflight idea at the officer’s conference tonight; if it gets shot down, I’ll mention the other mission next week. That seem good?”
Maddic laughs. “It’s as good a shot as any, I suppose.”
Then followed a brief period of intense brainstorming. Peter Shingle, a red-headed Angloethnii with a feeble joke of a mustache, recommended a two-week backpacking trip across the Northern Continental Trail, but nobody was interested in that; there was little excitement right then, at the beginning of the hot season, in sweat and constantly smelling your neighbor.
“How about this,” put in Kefon after a moment. “If we can’t go on a spaceship, how about a real ship or boat? That would be the next closest thing.”
“That seems alright,” agreed Ander. “Everyone else concur with that?”
Everyone else did agree with that plan, as it was, at least, more interesting than a two-week backpacking trip. Peter, however, was unsure; where would they find a boat? However, Ander pointed out that a vessel would be relatively easy to source compared to a spacecraft, and Peter conceded the point.
“Anyhow,” said Ander, “With that done, I’ll be sure to mention this later tonight.” And he was quite sure, for about an hour later, he found himself in his usual seat in that night’s officer’s conference. And, with nothing serious left to discuss, he brought it up.
“So I heard that a space flight can be a mission. As just a preliminary feel of attitude about it, what do you think about it?”
“Absolutely not!” answered Bartholomew—one of the leaders—forcefully. “Whatever put that idea into your mind?”
“Well, one of the scouts made a joke about that when I asked for mission ideas, and I said I would put this forward for consideration if they could think up a real idea,” he explained. “It wasn’t really serious; it was just a bit of bait for those who always have their head in the clouds.”
“Well, the idea has some merit,” put in Feil el’Deman, who was Kefon’s father. “There’s a real mission already created by Erionalis Scouting for space flights; I personally like the idea myself.”
“It’s good in theory but improbable in practice,” said John Buskin, another leader. “The logistics are just not possible for a small scouting troop. But if we could feasibly attempt it, I see no reason why we wouldn’t try.” Most of the other leaders agreed with this, and many officers as well.
“But we can’t feasibly attempt it,” said Marthala, one of their oldest leaders. “So there’s no point in trying. I’ve been leading in scouting troops for fifty years, and in that time only eight of the most well-funded troops have ever managed to actually achieve a space flight. We’re a small troop in a backwards province of Erionalis—we’re lucky to have a single ansible at our disposal. I highly doubt our troop can manage to pull together enough funds to buy and outfit a spaceship.”
“That’s not necessarily guaranteed,” answered Feil. “Ander, do you have any ideas about how this could be pulled off?”
“Well, I haven’t thought about it deeply, but let me think,” he mused. “The easiest part is actually acquiring the spacecraft, in my opinion. Most members of Eagles Airborne have jobs, and several have actually quite a lot of money. Rather than attempt to fund it via the troop treasury, I’d recommend requiring anybody coming onboard to pay a piece of their savings—say, five to fifteen percent—and then we might just have enough. This is aided by the fact that, if Maddic is correct, there are a lot of old, used craft from the 80’s and 90’s that are still perfectly serviceable for our purposes and are far cheaper than anything new. With the fast shuttle services between planets, we can also look beyond the Erionalii market—I expect that the Gozian planets will have cheaper offerings than here.
“After that, we outfit and repair the ship. If we have any money left this will also be easy, as between Agatha, Yelipson, and Maddic, and those Maddic has trained, we can do all of the repair and maintenance ourselves. If we’re discerning in our choice of vessel, we might just need to repaint it. Actual standard supplies, such as food and water, will be simple.
“As for our route, we can just do something simple and still get the whole space-flight experience. I’d recommend flying to Ellada, Merionalis, or Austral, as the routes from here to those places are well-defined and much traveled, not to mention being simple jumps. If we want some more distance—which is likely—we can fly to Gozia. What I think will be the actual most difficult task is getting people’s parents to agree to this—which isn’t a good reason to call the whole thing off unless so many people can’t come that we cannot operate a ship. I find that situation unlikely, as a good explorer can usually be piloted by only six to eight people.”
“See?” Feil attempted to adjudicate. “That all sounds perfectly reasonable to me.”
“But who would captain this ship?” probed Bartholomew. “And who would fly it? None of us, no matter how excited for it we are, are capable of that.”
Maddic, the squadron commander of Eagles Airborne, interjected for the first time. “I can fly it, and so could Ander or Emar. Even ships from the 80’s and 90’s are fairly simple to fly most of the time, and I can ensure that, in the technicals, I’m the one to do it, as I’ve flown and docked real ships.”
“That’s preposterous!” exclaimed Bartholomew. “That would be so unsafe I would call it diabolical!”
Maddic seemed a bit denigrated. “You’ve said an absolutely ‘diabolical’ statement,” he retorted, with a hint of sarcasm. “My employer trusts me to pilot ships in and out of spacedocks, and has even had me deliver some small, fast ships a couple of times. I just got back from delivering an explorer all the way to Gozia just last month. To be clear, that’s one hundred and one light-years.”
“In addition, I would like to mention the fact that the official space flight mission requires the scouts to pilot, captain, and overall operate the ship, not the adults,” put in Feil. “Your suggestion to revoke their due license to operate the ship nullifies the entire point of the mission being there at all. Maybe it would be reasonable if we were talking about the Flatteners, or Red Dawn Squadron, but it’s Eagles Airborne we’re talking about! Some of these scouts are adults already, including Maddic.”
“Well then Feil, perhaps that would be all fine and good if Maddic flies the ship,” conceded Bartholomew unwillingly. “But I would like to ask who would captain this hypothetical vessel if not an adult? I don’t want some incompetent child flying me to a cold, lonely death in space!”
This made Ander furious. “In all likelihood, Bartholomew, I would be the one to captain this ship,” he said, his voice for all the world having an effect as of a fierce boreal gale. “I hope you’re not saying I’ve been leading our troop incompetently for the last year and a half.” Many of those present flinched at his gelid onslaught, even though they were not the targets of his sally.
Bartholomew, being the stolid man of granite that he was, did not, however, show any sign of being ruffled. “I am not. However, I doubt any of you would be competent at leading a crew of children on a tramp all across the various realms of space, no matter how skilled you are at leading men otherwise.”
“Oh lay off, Tholo,” said Marthala. “Ander literally said not two minutes ago that they’d be running a jump; it’s not like they’d be hopping all across the First Inhabited Density before going on a locker to the World Union. I’m not a fan of this plan, but it’s not unreasonable. I shan’t vote on it one way or the other.”
“Ah, is that what it’s coming to now? A vote?” snarked Bartholomew. “I thought it was still in the theory stage. Also, don’t call me Tholo, or I’ll start calling you Thala.”
“I’ve already outlined all the theory,” answered Ander. “If you guys are willing, the next step is to approve the plan so we can get the ball rolling. Would you say it is time to put it to vote?” This last he addressed to Feil.
“Yes,” he answered. “I would. All in favor?” Many people, including Ander and Maddic, raised their hands. “I count fourteen. Those against?” Bartholomew, as well as others, raised their hands. “I count…fourteen. Interesting. It appears we have a tie. Has anybody abstained?”
“Yes,” said Marthala. “I did, as I said I would.”
“Alright,” said Feil. “Did anybody else?”
Nothing.
“Okay,” said Feil. “Well, Marthala, it seems it has fallen to you for a tiebreaker.”
“I see,” intoned Marthala. He looked about the room; everyone was looking at him. “Well then, I vote for. I don’t like the idea, but there’s nothing necessarily wrong with it.”
Ander smiled and looked at Maddic, who was attempting to appear calm but was obviously excited. “I’ll put out an announcement about this tonight,” he said. “I plan on getting this moving as quickly as possible.”
“That seems reasonable,” said Feil. “Good luck!”
________________


Chapter Two - Into the Stars
Then one day I, presuming to see
These distant planets for myself, entering
Such an awesome iron box, speeding
Along so fast that light itself fails to catch
Us or get out of our way
—And should we collide with a planet, both our ends
Begin—go to fly to the stars
—Second stanza of The Stars, written by Rafar Etinçelle of Ellada, in the 47th year post-Blot


A week and a half later, Ander found himself on a shuttle bound to Ellada, a day out from Erionalis. Things had gone well; everyone signing up had done so by the end of the week after the initial announcement, and they had collected 82,820 Gozian vingas to pay for a ship, repairs, and supplies. They’d also found a ship to look at, a serviceable vessel being sold for 67,900 vingas on the Elladii market. Some girls wanted to come as well—notably Ander’s sister Eldrae, as well as Female Brigadier Andrea Bollahand—so they had to make allowances for that. In the end, they decided to bring three leaders: John Buskin, Feil el’Deman, and his wife Alexa el’Deman. In the end, four girls and ten boys came, including Ander and Maddic but not including leaders. Now Ander and Maddic, along with Feil, were on the way to inspect the ship they were interested in. Feil was asleep, and Maddic was reading something on his phone, looking worried.
“What is it?” Ander asked quietly.
“It’s a report on the news,” answered Maddic. “I’m not entirely sure what to make of it, but it’s certainly worrying.”
“What’s it say?”
“It says that bandit attacks are more common than they used to be, which is concerning.”
“Eh, I’m sure it’s fake.” Ander stretched and yawned, then continued. “And anyways, we aren’t traipsing about in the BRICK Density or something. We’re flying the jump from Erionalis to Gozia and back.”
“Well, these attacks aren’t just occurring in backwater sectors to ships nixing the well-traveled routes.” He pulled up an article from the Universal Bugle titled ‘Merchants Terrorized near the Belt: Military on Scene.’ He read aloud: “‘Two merchant ships en route to the World Union from Gozian Terra Primitivus were brought out of alcuwarp when they were approached by three ships, who immediately ordered them to surrender or prepare to be destroyed. They did not surrender, and the enemy ships opened fire.
“‘Fortunately, the Belt was only a short distance away and the military responded to their distress signal, chasing off the terrorists. It is not known if they were affiliated with any known terrorist groups. The World Union squadron responsible for the Belt was not available to comment when this article went to press.’”
“Wow, that’s crazy,” said Ander. “But it’s a locker from Gozia to the World Union, with lots of empty space and few places to stop, and all but the Belt greatly increase travel times. Not like ours; there’s lots of planets near enough to our route. And anyways, thousands of ships travel both routes every year. Even if there are bandits targeting ours, the chance that we are attacked is astronomically low.”
“That might be true, but it’s disquieting,” Maddic said. “The issue is, is that you’re right: there’s normally only a few bandit attacks in any given year, mostly along untraveled routes and near backward planets; but in the last two years its been noted by some that the frequency of attacks has increased threefold and have been much more organized, like a gang or something. Not to mention that they’ve been targeting more well-patrolled routes recently too. It’s disturbing.”
“Well, that is disquieting,” agreed Ander. “But I still doubt that we’d be targeted. Sure, it’s not a hop in the center of the First Inhabited Density, but we have the core of the FID to our right and the Mitsarosphere on our left. Sure, Mitsari might be a bit out in the sticks, but they’ve been proven to be as hard on trade and transport crime as any other planet out there. I think we’ll be fine.”
“Hm. I guess.” Maddic didn’t sound convinced, but he didn’t press the argument, and neither did Ander; it was clear it was a bit of a pointless debate. The shuttle continued on its way, silent except for the light snoring of Feil and the indistinct chatter of a group towards the front of the shuttle. Ander closed his eyes and eventually fell asleep.


 ✸   ✸   ✸


About eighteen hours later, Ander, Maddic, and Feil found themselves traversing a corridor in a spacedock; the sign above the entrance was labeled “explorers,” which Ander assumed meant that that was where explorer-class ships could be accessed. The man selling the vessel, named Nathaniel Terikstata, had to agree to meet them where the ship was docked—a dock labeled “E-37”—at 1600 hours Elladii Standard Time-0. It was now 1557. They came to a T-shaped intersection, where they came upon a sign that said that numbers less than seventeen were to the left and over seventeen were to the right. Proceeding that way along the lightly curved corridor, they eventually saw a door with a man standing next to it—the door was labeled, sure enough, E-37.
“Are you Nathaniel Terikstata?” Ander asked the man.
“Yes,” was his reply.
“Good to meet you,” said Ander, shaking his hand. “I’m Ander ne’Ver. Thank you for your offer.”
The man looked surprised. “I thought that he was Ander,” Nathaniel said, gesturing to Feil.
“No, that’s Feil el’Deman,” corrected Ander. “He’s just here to supervise us; our parents don’t want us wandering across space by ourselves just yet.”
“I see,” said Nathaniel. “Who’s that then?”
“That would be Maddic Endigan, our pilot,” answered Ander.
“Interesting,” said Nathaniel, shaking Maddic’s hand. “Good to meet you. And please, all of you, call me Nate.” He paused. “Anyhow, I expect you’re wishing to see the ship you’re looking to buy. Come on in and see.” He rapidly entered a passcode into a device on the door and then pulled it open; it was incredibly thick and solid metal. Ander thought that it must be very heavy.
Inside was a huge room walled and roofed with metal on all sides, with strips of grip tape on the floor. On huge rails—like a train—sat a complete spaceship, recognizably an explorer of the Vita class. It was about as long as a long semi truck but twice as tall and three times wider. It was painted brick red, with the name Kolyan painted on the side in large, white letters. Two large thruster assemblies in the back were complemented by single thrusters located on various parts of the ship, which were used for steering; unlike the pristine sides of the ship, these showed some signs of wear by high temperature, with prismatic discoloration and a sooty appearance. On top of the Kolyan was what appeared to be a turret gun mount with no gun in it. A massive scorch mark covered the entire back wall of the room, including the door, showing just how violent launching a spacecraft was—even with an electrostatic catapult.
Ander nudged Maddic and asked quietly, “Are the thruster turrets supposed to be warped and discolored like that? They look like the inside of my car’s cylinders when I overcompressed it.”
“It’s fine,” answered Maddic. “Antimatter thrusters output so much heat that some discoloring is inevitable, and removing the discoloration and buffing out the warps is almost as expensive as replacing them; the Molybdenum-Tungsten alloy that they’re made of is expensive and hard to work with.”
Nate had heard some of that exchange and said, “Oh, are you talking about the thruster turrets? Yeah, that’s normal. I don’t have the kind of money to get them replaced, and it doesn’t affect their operation.” He paused. “This is my first vessel, the Kolyan; it’s a pity I can’t keep her anymore, but she’s just too old, and I don’t fly her anymore, whether for pleasure or for business. If you decide to buy her, feel free to repaint and rename her, I suppose.” He seemed rather sentimental about the vessel. Maddic started to walk around the ship, inspecting the outside, and Ander, Feil, and Nate followed.
As they walked, Ander asked Nate, “Where did you get the Kolyan?”
“She was originally a mining vessel, I think,” said Nate. “She’s better-armored than the average Vita-class explorer, and while I don’t know much Beltan, her old paint job named her the Briseur de Pierres, which translates to ‘Miner’ or ‘Stone Breaker’ or something like that. She had already been sold once—to a used dealer—so I couldn’t track down the information about her origins. That would also explain why she was always completely unarmed—the front gun and turret gun mounts still have the original paint over the mounting slots, except for the front-center mount, which seems to have something in it, although it’s not clear what; it’s certainly not a gun.”
“Interesting,” said Ander. “Where does the name Kolyan come from?”
“After I first bought her, I had to repaint her,” explained Nate. “I didn’t like ‘Briseur de Pierres,’ so I named her after my brother, Nicolai.”
“How does ‘Kolyan’ come from ‘Nicolai’?” They had made it almost all the way around the Kolyan.
“It’s from an Ethnii culture,” said Nate. “It’s a common nickname there for those with that name.”
“I see,” said Ander. “That’s actually really neat.”
Maddic had finished his inspection of the outer hull. “Everything seems good out here. Before we go inside, can I ask what her specs are?”
“Excellent,” said Nate. “Let’s me see… She has a 305-b WDD and a 350kbps ansible, along with a dedicated munible. She has a cargo bay and a supplies closet and can support a crew of up to eighteen people, though she can be piloted with much less. With a completely full crew, she’ll run for forty days before needing to be resupplied; for food, of course, not for refueling. She is unarmed, as I previously mentioned, but is well-armored and has supreme heat dissipation. Her top speed is 1,910 lux, give or take a couple dozen.”
“Excellent,” said Maddic. “She really is in very good condition, and those specs are very reasonable given her age.”
“Indeed. I suppose you’ll be wanting to see inside?” asked Nate.
“Yes,” said Maddic. “We would.”
“Right.” said Nate.  “Although, if I may ask, why are you the one to be inspecting the ship and not Ander? I thought you were just the pilot.”
“I’m an undermech at work,” clarified Maddic. “I regularly deliver ships for my boss, however, as I’m fairly skilled at piloting.”
“I see,” said Nate. “Well, come on in.” He climbed a set of retractable stairs that had been popped out of the floor next to the Kolyan’s airlock and then entered a passcode on the side of the door to open it. It opened inward, and they stepped into a tiny room with another hatch on the far side; it had a sign in Beltan, but Ander assumed it read ‘airlock chamber’ or something similar. They passed through the hatch on the far side and entered what could only be the cargo bay. The inside wasn’t in as good condition as the exterior was;  there were small patches of rust on the corrugated metal walls, and there were a few dents. There was a single large maximum-voltage power jack in the Beltan style.
“This is the part that’s in the worst condition,” explained Nate. “It was really expensive to have this refurbished or repaired, and it’s really just an aesthetic difference, just like the thruster turrets. I promise the rest of the ship is in better condition.”
They continued in an inspection of the rest of the ship from back to front, starting with engineering and continuing through the barracks, supply closet, kitchen, and the facilities. As Nate had said, everything was in very good condition, except perhaps for some minor damage to the hallways. Everything seemed fully operational and in a very usable state of repair, if not in mint condition.
Eventually, the group came to their last room to inspect: the bridge. It was lower than the rest of the ship, with four stairs to come down to its level. Its front wall curved panoramically from their far left to their far right, and the ceiling gradually dipped lower towards the front. There were three rows of chairs, two in each, spaced further out each row so each chair had a direct and complete line of sight to the front wall; they all had touchscreen panels sitting out in front of them that appeared to be able to fold back. That wall itself was not particularly interesting in and of itself except for some small lights of various colors next to it in a column. The procession moved down the stairs, and Feil asked what the chairs were for.
“The two chairs near the stairs are the captain’s and pilot’s chairs,” Maddic answered. “The captain’s chair can do anything—always—but it’s usually easiest to use comms and ansible and to do high-level things on them. The pilot’s chair focuses on quick and easy thruster controls and transible usage. The next two down are general operator’s chairs, which put an equal emphasis on everything except weaponry. They can operate guns if need be, but it’s usually really awkward. The final two are gunner’s chairs, which are for, well, gunners. They have an exclusive focus on efficient and accurate use of weaponry.”
“I see,” said Feil.
“Anyhow, Nate,” began Maddic, “I suppose the only thing left is to test the computer and ansible and then do a short test flight. Do you mind if we do that?”
“No, no,” said Nate. “Go ahead. Do you want to test it yourself?”
“Yes, please, if you don’t mind,” Ander said. Ander sat in the captain’s chair, Maddic in the pilot’s chair, and Nate and Feil in the general operator’s chairs; it took Feil a moment to figure out how to stow the touchscreen pads so he could sit down. Then Ander pressed a button on the side of his control panel, and the beige wall in the front was replaced by a loading screen, followed a moment later by a status report. It read:
Fuel: 100%
Power Core: POWERED DOWN
Auxiliary Power: 89%
Speed: 0
Location: Ellada, First Inhabited Density


WF_0: UNPOPULATED
WF_1: POWERED DOWN
WF_2: UNPOPULATED
WT_0: UNPOPULATED
Ander was confused as to why the front-center gun read that it was powered down rather than unpopulated. “Nate, why does it say we have a front-center gun?”
“As far as I’m aware, it’s an error,” said Nate. “It’s always read that. I’ve never even tried to fire it—who knows what it would do. It could do nothing, it could fire some sort of low-profile weapon—or it just might blow the ship to smithereens. If there really is anything there, I’d bet it's some sort of cutting laser for mining, but don’t quote me on that.” 
“I see,” said Ander. “Well, I suppose it doesn’t really matter.” He flipped through some different views on the screen, giving details about various parts of the ship and how well they were operating, with everything from guns to the kitchen stove. There were also several exterior camera views and a unified view that merged all of them together into a 3D sphere—a fancy feature at the ship’s time of construction. Satisfied with what he saw, he asked Maddic, “Do you think we’re ready for ansible tests?”
“Yes,”
“Who should we call?”
“How about the troop HQ? There’s probably somebody there right now.”
“That sounds reasonable.” Ander opened the ansible controls on his control panel and entered the address of the troop HQ. He sent a message asking to open a voice connection, which he routed through the munible on his end.
A moment later, a call came through. “Hello, Erionali Scouting Troop 694 Starchasers Troop HQ. You have reached Half-Lieutenant Bollahand. What is your message?” It was the voice of Andrea Bollahand, the Female Brigadier of the Starchasers.
“Hi Andrea!” said Ander. “This is Ander—we needed to test the ansible and munible on the ship we’re looking at.”
“Oh, that’s cool!” said Andrea unironically. “How’s it coming? Is the ship good, for us at least?”
“It’s coming great,” said Ander. “The ship seems to be just right, at least so far.”
“We just have to do the flight tests now,” Maddic put in.
“That’s excellent!” Andrea said. “I hope those last tests go well. Anyhow, I have to sign off to finish my work. Have a good day!”
“Have a good day!” Ander closed the connection. “Well, Nate, we have only two things left to test: the WDD and the thrusters. Do you mind if we test these?”
“Nope,” he agreed. “Go right on ahead.”
“Excellent,” said Ander. “Maddic, are you ready to pilot?”
“Yessir,” said Maddic.
“Well then, let’s get this show on the road.” Ander powered on the power core; the ship’s lights lit up noticeably brighter now that it was off of auxiliary power. He opened the standard launch munible channel, SAN/M03, and said, “Control, this is E-37 powering up and looking for takeoff.”
A moment later: “E-37, you are clear to take off at your leisure.”
Ander said, “Opening dock doors and charging electrostatic catapult,” and did as he said he was.
When the doors finished opening, Maddic announced, “Electrostatic catapult charged.” The computer reaffirmed this report.
“Crew, are we all prepared for takeoff?” asked Ander as a final question.
Nate was looking through different menus on his control panel and muttering to himself. “...Power core… check. Thrusters… check. We’re all clear!”
“Right,” said Ander. “This is E-37 taking off!” Ander released the electrostatic catapult, and Maddic powered turned the thrusters to a 100% launch burn. Time seemed to stop for a heartbeat as the G dampeners tried to contain the vast acceleration the ship was undergoing. Then Ander and the rest of the crew were shoved back in their seats as forcefully as they could stand as the G dampeners exceeded their limits. A few seconds later, this force stopped gradually until they were sitting on their thrusters’ acceleration—well within the G dampeners ratings. Maddic dropped the thruster burn to 80%.
Ander said through the ansible connection, “Control, this is E-37 signing off on our launch. Over and out.” He closed the connection with the spacedock—and they were flying in space, alone, with nobody but themselves around. He switched the view on the screen to a side-by-side split view between the front camera and the navigation system. Maddic ran a series of thruster tests: first, a long burst of continuous acceleration, then braking and deceleration and reverse direction, then braking again, and then a 110% overdrive burn. He then tried smooth side-to-side movement and up-and-down, first at 80% and then overdrive burns at 110%. Finally, he did a standard cycle of evasive maneuvers testing. The Kolyan performed admirably, never dropping below 70% on the power core—well above the recommended minimum of 50%.
“This ship is stolid,” noted Maddic. “The thrusters are quite powerful. She also takes overdrive burns beautifully; I’m surprised she wasn’t upthrottled. Not the most maneuverable ship I’ve ever flown, but that’s not surprising, given how armored she is.”
“Indeed,” said Nate. “I’ve always found her to be dependable.”
“Anyhow,” said Ander, “We’ve got just one more thing to do: WDD testing. Are you ready, Maddic?”
“Yes, I am,” he responded with verve. “Powering on the WDD.” Ander set a destination at a point 1900 AUs away, which he knew would be about a ten-minute period in alcuwarp, which is the state of when a ship is using a WDD.
But for two and a half minutes, nothing happened. It took that long to charge the WDD, which was definitely not normal.
“Why is it taking this long to charge the transable?” Ander asked.
“I don’t know,” answered Nate. “It’s always been like this. I have no clue why. I suppose it’s just some glitch within the charging computer or something. It’s never actually affected its operation once it’s charged.”
And, sure enough, after that time, Maddic reported, “The WDD has finished charging. Ready for warp?”
“Ready,” said Ander.
Maddic said, “Engaging WDD to 100%.” And it was wild. On the screen, they could see reality fold over itself 1,930 times—the speed at which the ship was going. The colors changed completely until it seemed the stars had vanished into the refulgent prismatic spray that was the camera feed. The shape and color of the spray shifted in waves, lending it the appearance of a thalassian expanse of psychedelically dyed water that never quite mixed together.
“Wow,” gasped Ander. “This— this is—”
“Beautiful,” Nate finished. He looked over at Ander. “I know. The first space flight I took hooked me on it forever; it’s just so wonderful and breathtaking to behold.”
“Why does it shift in waves?” asked Ander.
“Inaccuracies in the spatial warper,” explained Maddic. “They are quite prominent in this ship because of how old the WDD is.”
“I see,” said Ander. “Well, anyhow, I think it looks beautiful.”
“I agree with you,” said Maddic. “It truly is.”
When they reached their destination—just some spot in empty space—they came out of warp, which was a thirty-second process where the colors flashed in variegated violence, and reality seemed to decompress. There they sat, in between millions and millions of stars, not one seeming closer than any other. Once again, it was breathtakingly beautiful.
But they could not remain there forever; they turned around and made their way back to Ellada. About thirteen minutes later, Ander, Maddic, Nate, and Feil found themselves standing outside of the Kolyan.
“Well, does everything seem good to you?” asked Nate.
“It sure does,” said Ander. “You can send the bill; we’ll buy it.”
“Excellent,” said Nate, pulling out his smartphone and muttering, “One thing that I love about living in Ellada is how easy it is to buy and sell things.”
“Indeed,” said Ander, also pulling out his smartphone as he’d received the bill. Then he exclaimed, “Hey! You mistyped the bill. It was supposed to be V67,900, not V57,900.”
“No, I didn’t,” said Nate. “That was the amount I meant to charge.”
“But we can afford it,” claimed Ander.
“Maybe you can,” said Nate. “But you’re just kids, and I’m surprised you’ve managed to scrape together enough money to buy this craft at all. Please, let me help you with this.”
“Alright,” Ander said begrudgingly. Finalizing the payment, he said, “Well, it’s done.”
“Excellent,” said Nate. Ander and Maddic began leaving to get supplies for the Kolyan to make her flightworthy back to Erionalis, so Nate finished, “Have a good day!”
“You too, Nate!”


✸   ✸   ✸


Andrea was still working in the troop HQ when the HQ phone got a call. She picked up: “Hello, Erionali Scouting Troop 694 ‘Starchasers’ Troop HQ. You have reached Half-Lieutenant Bollahand.”
“Hello, this is the Erionalii Department of Trade according to the International Transaction Safety Provision,” came a bored, businesslike voice over the line. “We are here to inform you that a large transaction of over 10,000 Nocks has been extracted from your account.”
“Who are the executor and the receiver, and how much was the transaction?”
“The transaction was for 69,833.19 Nocks, placed in Vingas, valued at V57,900. The executor was Ander ne’Ver, and the receiver was Nate Terikstata.”
“The transaction was legitimate. Thank you for your time.” Andrea hung up. She then sent a message on the troop leadership chat: Hey guys, Ander got the spaceship!
________________


Chapter Three - Into the Night
And then I witness the beauty that
Was brought by the lost elder Alcubierre, wondering
Just how warp flight turns light, in passing
Into the prismatic rainbow that I now see:
A sight so enthralling I may never come out
Of the reverie of viewing it, not even for those
Who intend to ambush me, until we arrive at where we go.
—Third stanza of The Stars, written by Rafar Etinçelle of Ellada, in the 47th year post-Blot


Everything ran smoothly after Ander and Maddic brought the Kolyan back to the spacedock. Supplying and outfitting her was straightforward, and the paint job was easy: they simply painted the Starchasers troop name and number to the side, as well as the troop flag, which was a six-pointed star with the trail of a rocket beneath it as if it were blasting off from a launchpad. Not the most original, but it had been effective at identifying the troop in the past. Lastly, the reporter was edited to report it as Erionalii, not Elladii. 
When all was said and done, they were ready for launch. Those who were leaving on the ship said goodbye to their parents—some tearfully, some less so—and then prepared to get on the ship, which had already been packed. Before they could board, however, Ander had to call role. Three leaders came: Feil el’Deman, Alexa el’Deman, and John Buskin. In addition to them, fourteen children came: on top of Ander and Maddic, there was Eldrae, Kefon, Andrea, Bendor and his girlfriend Alexina el’Deman, Emar el’Deman, Lexanra Telerui, Peter Shingle, Star Vlindma, Agatha Nazha’el (a boy, much to the confoundation of Peter), Yelipson Nazha’el, and Veril Gem. Four squadrons were represented: Eagles Airborne, the squadron of boys sixteen to eighteen; Groundcrawler squadron, which was Bendor’s; Shining Star, which was the squadron of Eldrae, Lexanra, and Andrea; and Silver Beacon, which was Alexina’s squad. There were two more squadrons in Starchasers troop, which were the Flatteners for the boys and Red Dawn for the girls; but they were considered too young to join.
After this, they said their last goodbyes, boarded the ship, and a moment later the Kolyan was flying free in space.


✸   ✸   ✸


Three weeks later, the Kolyan was already returning home to Erionalis. It wasn’t that they had hit some snag that forced them to backtrack to their home; rather, they had already made it to Gozia, and were now on the second half of their jump. Very little had happened on the way up. Everybody had had their turn marveling at the beauty of the compressed light from the warp drive, and after that went about the things they did: piloting; leading; supervising; chronicling; taking stock of supplies; playing, both musical instruments and games; calling home; chatting; cooking; surfing the interweb; gossiping; and doing schoolwork—at least for those with summer school, namely Star and Yelipson, the latter voluntary and the former not. Life was quiet, and overall, that was a good thing.
Outside of the two merchant ships which they had passed, there was only one notable encounter. Two weeks in, a ship appeared on an intercept trajectory on long-range sensors, reported as a Gozian military frigate,There were well-armed ships owned and operated by private companies and individuals as well). After a few hours, the Kolyan was dragged out of alcuwarp by the approaching vessel—ship computers automatically disabled alcuwarp if something approached too near, as the energy that comes off an Alcubierre Field would destroy the approacher otherwise—and hailed.
“This is Captain Joshua Lextovel of the Gozian vessel Ceitaori Proksiail,” came a stern voice over the speakers. “Identify yourselves and tell me from whence you came and to where you are going.”
John moved to answer him, but Ander held up his hand and answered, “I am First Officer Ander ne’Ver of Erionalis Scouting Troop 694 ‘Starchasers,’ which owns this vessel. We originate from Erionalis and are flying to Gozia.”
“Ah, so you are one of those troops attempting the space flight mission,” said Captain Lextovel. “I remember the last one to do so, about nine years ago; they always seem to choose to fly to Gozia. I intercepted them last time as well, interestingly enough. Anyhow, good luck, and have a good day. You’re free to go.”
“Thank you, sir,” said Ander.
He was about to close the channel when Captain Lextovel said one last thing. “Oh, and by the way, please be careful around these parts. There have been rather more bandit attacks recently, and while there haven’t been many reports in the sectors between Gozia and the First Inhabited Density, and none between Erionalis and Gozia, but you’d best be careful. I can’t escort you, I’m afraid; I’m required to keep patrolling this sector. Please be careful.”
“We will, sir,” said Ander. “Thank you for the warning.” Ander closed the connection. The leaders gave him some odd looks, and later, during an officers’ conference, they asked if he had already known about the increased bandit encounters. Feil, John, and Alexa looked very concerned; Eldrae, Andrea, and Maddic were also present, as they were also officers.
“I had,” said Ander. “Maddic told me about it. But even as the Gozian captain said, there have been hardly any between Gozia and the FID, and none between Erionalis and Gozia. I considered the risk too small to be worth mentioning.”
“The FID?” asked Alexa, not recognizing the term.
“The First Inhabited Dynasty,” Maddic amended.
“Well, we would have liked to have heard!” said John Buskin. “It’s a real shame that you withheld that from us before, as that’s quite a disappointing letdown on your part.”
“It seemed unimportant,” said Ander rather diplomatically. “I thought that you would take it for granted that, yes, there is an infinitesimally small chance that you might encounter a bandit—just as one might encounter a murderer on the streets of the New Capital. And don’t act like you didn’t hear at least one report of increased raids; I saw three in the weeks leading up to the launch of the ship and one during the flight. It’s no secret; I’d assumed you’d already known about that as well.”
Feil stopped looking concerned and looked a little ashamed. “I might’ve, actually, I think,” he said. “I don’t think it even registered on my mind.” All the leaders responded similarly.
“Well, the question is not, ‘whose fault is this miscommunication,’ it’s ‘what do we do in the light of this,’ said Andrea. “Either we can turn around and return to Erionalis, a two-week journey, or continue around Gozia, a four-week journey. Personally, I prefer the latter, so we can properly complete our goal; I don’t see how two weeks significantly affect our chances of being raided when there have been no reports of bandits between Erionalis and Gozia since that one ill-fated corvette four years ago.”
“I agree, for the same reasons,” said Maddic.
“I disagree with your logic but not your conclusion,” said Eldrae. “Two extra weeks doubles our time in space, which doubles our chance of encountering a ship, but if the chance was one in ten million—which seems about right—then it’s now one in five million, which both are effectively zero. I also see no reason to turn around.”
“Well, I suppose you all are right,” said John Buskin. “The ship can go on.”
After that, nothing much happened until they landed in Gozia, and even then, things were quiet. They resupplied straightforwardly and also replaced the Secondary Influx, which had begun becoming erratic during the last few days of the flight. Everyone went down to the surface of the planet to enjoy an afternoon in the capital, Goza Stad, which most people spent relaxing in one form or another. Bendor Aviel had a date with his girlfriend, Alexina el’Deman; it went neutrally as far as Ander could tell, affecting them neither one way nor the other. After that, they returned to the ship and cast off.
The return journey had been quite quiet, at least so far. There wasn’t much to encounter in deep space other than other wayfarers. They flew by a comet before entering alcuwarp, which was fun to see; but there was otherwise little in the way of encounters.
Ander was brought out of his reverie by a beep from the ship’s computer. In the room were Maddic as pilot, Agatha and Eldrae as general operators, and Feil and Star in the gunner’s chairs. “What was that?” he asked.
“I don’t know, let me see,” said Eldrae. She hit some buttons on her control panel and reported, “A ship just came within sensor range.”
“Put it on-screen,” said Ander.
Eldrae double-tapped something on her panel and looked up as the nav view scrolled to the detected vessel. “There we are. It seems to be on an intercept course; it’s just under two hours away, given we’re moving towards them slightly.”
“I honestly hate having long-range sensors that only go out forty-five thousand AUs,” Ander said, standing. “Can we detect its reporter?”
“On it,” said Agatha. A moment later, he said, “Yes we can.” The reporter view came on-screen, identifying it as an Acer-class explorer of ninety tons, of the nation of Austral, named the Recusatio. It was coming from the direction of the Southern Gap, one point east of Mitsari.
“On the Eight Points?” asked Ander.
“Slightly on the port fathom, but not enough ‘fathom’ to really consider it an approach from below,” said Agatha.
“Why the heck is an Austral ship coming from there?” exclaimed Feil. “There’s hardly anything in that direction!”
“Maybe Mitsari,” suggested Eldrae, “But it doesn’t check out. One point is absurdly far off, even for a Long Patrol.”
“Can we avoid it?” asked Star.
“I doubt it,” said Ander. “Maddic?”
“No,” said the addressed. “It’s traveling well over twenty-five hundred lux, which we couldn’t hope to do without overcharging the WDD, which isn’t stable.”
“Well, do we want to avoid it?” asked Star.
“What do you mean?” Ander seemed rather perplexed.
“Well, if the ship is just a Mitsarii patroller, it would seem incredibly suspicious of us to run away so,” explained Star. “We’d probably be targeted by them or, more likely, would be reported to the Gozian authorities, and then they would target us.” He paused, his brow furrowed as he attempted to recall all he knew about space in the region. “They could be merchants from Okraecuria looking to get to Gozia. Those Gozians don’t like it when people approach from odd angles.”
“I’ve never even heard of Okraecuria before, so I doubt it,” said Eldrae. “Where even is it?”
“A planet in the sticks that’s widely considered even more backward than Mitsari,” answered Star. “They’re really poor.”
“I see,” said she.
“Anyhow, what should we do?” said Star.
“I would also like to know that,” said Feil pointedly, raising his eyebrows.
Ander sat in deliberation for a moment, his brows furrowed. Then he said: “We should do nothing. Star is right: in all likelihood, they’re a non-hostile vessel with no intentions to bother us; they’re probably either a patroller who’s interested in who we are or else a merchant who happens to be on an intercept course and cares naught for us. If we go on the evasive, it well might stir up more trouble for us then it’s worth, and it’ll only scare our crew and our parents.”
“And if they’re hostile?” inquired Feil.
“Then we’ll run as fast as our vessel can stand without tearing us apart,” said Ander.
“Well then,” said Feil.


✸   ✸   ✸


It was a tense couple of hours as the bridge crew waited for the ship to approach them. Eldrae, Feil, and Agatha were relieved halfway through by John Buskin, Veril, and Andrea; the gunner’s chairs didn’t actually do anything, and Star chose to stay. John was already aware of the situation, and the others were informed of it. The former man was furious about it, but Ander had pointed out that there were only nonsolutions to choose from and he had picked the best he could, and then he settled into quiet muttering and grumbling.
And now the two hours had almost passed. All of a sudden, the Kolyan decelerated and exited alcuwarp at the same time as the other ship—they were too close together to avoid destroying each other if they remained in alcuwarp. John warned Ander to be careful how he handled the situation. Ander told Maddic to recharge the WDD immediately after they exited alcuwarp, and then the Recusatio immediately hailed them.
“This is Captain Alfred Motlov of the Recusatio,” said a deep voice over the ansible link. “By the authority vested in me by the state of Austral, you are hereby under arrest and will submit to being searched.”
Ander thought quickly to escape this obviously false claim. “This is First Officer Ander ne’Ver of the Kolyan, and I refuse!” said Ander. “Austral has no authority in this space, and per Australii law it is required to state the crime of the offender during arrest proceedings! You will leave immediately or I will report you to the Universal Union Interstellar Safety Agency.”
“Do not do that, or we will open fire,” said the man on the speaker gravely. “You are suspected of smuggling methamphetamine into Austral. Now obey me!”
“Per Australii law, anybody suspected of carrying meth, heroin, marijuana, or any other drug is not to be investigated until they are within two light-years of Austral,” said Ander pointedly. “And anyhow, it would be very clear that we have never been to Austral in our tenure of this ship if you simply look up this ship—the Kolyan—in the IISD.”
A growl of frustration could be heard over the munible line. Ander whispered to Maddic and said, “Get us out of here, now!” Muffled sounds could be heard over the ansible line; they sounded like shouted commands.
“The transable is still charging!” Maddic responded. “I’m guessing at least another minute before it charges completely.”
“Well then, just give us the best overdrive burn you can!” Ander hissed. “I think we’re about to see just how well we can withstand weapons fire!”
“On it,” said Maddic purposefully. He pressed some buttons and the Kolyan jumped forward; more sounds of fury were heard over the connection before Ander closed it. Maddic forced the speed up and up and up—after ten seconds, the speed sat at 186%, and a warning—RTA_0, RTA_1, Thermal Saturation Reached!—flashed on the screen. Maddic then activated any steering thruster turrets that faced the stern at all and drove them as hard as he could—MTT_3, MTT_4, MTT_7, MTT_8, Thermal Saturation Reached!
“Ander, what are you doing?” asked John Buskin, slightly threateningly.
Ander opened a rear camera view and cursed their luck. The Recusatio was too far away to see clearly, but a blue glow was rapidly growing on its features. “Maddic, in three seconds, give us everything you have to the left! One…two…three!”
The Kolyan rolled to the side as fast as a heavily armored ship could, and they watched as a blue particle beam sped past them, nearly recorrecting its aim to hit them but running out of charge before it could.
“Oh my, oh my, oh my—they tried to kill us! They tried to kill us, didn’t they?” Andrea, who had been silent the whole time, now sat rigidly, her eyes wide. “What the heck was that?”
“A particle beam,” said Veril. “It was a particle beam.” He grimaced.
“Ander, what are you doing?” said John again, an edge sharper than a knife of Damascus in his voice.
“How do you know?” Andrea asked, freaked out. “It looked like a laser.” The Kolyan dashed straight down to avoid another weapons blast. 
After a moment, Veril said, “You can’t see a laser until it hits you.” Andrea’s eyes went wider still.
“Ander!” shouted John, now furious. “What are you doing? Explain yourself now!”
“Saving our lives!” vociferated the addressed. “Maddic! Is the WDD ready?”
“Almost!” said Maddic. “Ninety-seven percent.”
“Overcharge that thing until it hits critical temperature!” commanded Ander. “We’re going to need it.”
“No!” shouted John. “Don’t overcharge the WDD, and that’s an order!”
Maddic looked up for a moment from his controls, and looked from Ander to John, who were locked in a silent battle of wills, staring into each other’s eyes. The ship shook—likely from being hit—and an alarm sounded, breaking their standoff.
“Rear right thruster assembly has been damaged,” reported Veril.
Ander looked back to the front. “Maddic!”
“Right,” said the addressed. “Overcharging the WDD.” The percentage of the charge of the WDD, which had been slowly increasing over time, reached 100% and suddenly began shooting up even higher. It increased another sixty percent, seventy, eighty—and then teetered tenuously to 194%, almost double its normal speed; and then a warning flashed on the screen—TRANS_, Critical Temperature Reached!—and the Kolyan blasted off to—somewhere—at three thousand, six-hundred ninety-eight times the speed of light.
________________
Chapter Four - Mitsari
Life for me is like a road, long and hard,
Me wanting to turn off to someplace else;
But every other street is closed, my back is beaten.
I’m not allowed to go except where others will me,
And my life, bought and sold so many times
Means nothing to those whom it serves;
They give little freedoms but liberty detain, 
As I wait for the day I’m redeemed:
If it should ever come.
—Written by Lylah Florii of Mitsari, in the 496th year post-Blot


Eldrae was the only person on the bridge when the WDD dropped them out of warp. After the escape from the raider, the WDD had locked—presumably from a power spike or minor damage—for just over a week, causing them to travel seventy-five and a half light-years broadly in the direction of the southern gap. Thus, as one coudn’t actually pilot the ship from the bridge, or do much else of consequence for that matter, all one could do there is to make sure nothing went wrong; which was what Eldrae was doing. Several other systems had failed with the WDD, including the ansible and munible and the radio communicators, and the nav computer was corrupted during the escape, causing it to lose its focal point. This was the part that told it relative to where the Kolyan was, meaning that now the computer had no clue as to where they were; the map was still functioning, but they couldn’t actually route anywhere. Thrusters had been damaged, both from temperature saturation and from enemy fire, but all directions were still functional to some degree or another. Agatha, Maddic, and Yelipson had been fighting with the WDD all week to get it to unlock; now that they had done so, they could focus on getting the communications array fixed.Fortunately, most internal systems were still about where they had been before the attack, and this included internal communications. Eldrae opened such a line, a general broadcast to the whole ship.
“Hey everybody, they’ve gotten the WDD to unlock,” she reported. Everyone knew who “they” were: right now, they were Yelipson and Maddic. “We’ll hopefully be all flightworthy again soon.”
Various communication lines opened to the bridge cheering the development. They all came at about the same time, creating a cacophony of happy voices.
“Well I didn’t have any part in it,” said Eldrae. “Go cheer on the engineering squad.” She closed the line.
John Buskin walked in a few moments later and pressed a button on Eldrae’s control panel, reopening the line for a moment, saying, “Andrea, Maddic, and Ander, we need you for an officer’s conference on the bridge. Feil and Alexa, you as well.” He closed the line and looked at Eldrae. “Stay here. You’re an officer as well.”


✸   ✸   ✸


Ander, Maddic, Andrea, Eldrae, Feil, John Buskin, and Alexa were all sitting in the various chairs on the bridge—except for Maddic, who chose to sit on the floor, as there were only six chairs there. There was a very grave atmosphere. The officers knew that the lives, not only of themselves, but also of their crew—ten other people—were in their hands, and they somehow foreknew what was about to be discussed.
John Buskin looked from one person to another. “So,” began, seeming even more serious than was his usual temperament, “We face a serious problem.”
“I feel you’re understating the fact a bit,” said Alexa. “We’re stuck light-years into space, with no clue where we are and limited supplies! We should never come on this infernal voyage—any of us! And we all know just whose fault it is!” This last she directed malevolently at Ander.
“We do have ‘limited supplies,’ yes, but we have six weeks’ worth,” said Ander. “We’ll be fine unless life support fails or something, which I would say is highly unlikely. And I would like to point out that when you heard about the fact there are a few extra bandits wandering the stars, Alexa, you seemed about as concerned about it as I was—as in not at all. So,” he continued,  “We’ve gotten extremely unlucky; we’re still better off than most attacked by bandits. Our ship is still intact enough, and we can repair everything to functional condition ourselves, except for the nav computer. We have enough supplies to live comfortably for weeks doing nothing. We’re not in immediate danger so long as we don’t do something stupid that gives us away. I have some ideas as to how we can solve this, but I’d first like to hear your suggestions. Does anybody have any good ideas?”
“Well, can we do anything?” asked Feil. “All our communications systems are down, and it would take millennia to go anywhere with just our thrusters.”
“Things will be repaired soon enough,” said Maddic. “I think the transable will be in working order by the end of today, and comms will probably be back tomorrow. You can bet on our tech being back in order shortly.”
“What about the nav computer?” asked Feil. “Ander said that we wouldn’t be able to repair the nav computer ourselves.”
“He’s right, unfortunately,” said Maddic. “The mad dash from the escape caused a power surge that took out some systems, and it corrupted the nav computer’s focal point, which basically means it doesn’t know where we are relative to anything.”
“I, for one, would like to hear what our all-knowing captain has to say before I say anything,” interjected John Buskin acidly, “Lest I suggest something fatuous and am ignored.”
“I would as well,” added Feil, “Although unironically, unlike John here.” He gave John Buskin a disapproving look.
“Well, here is what I was thinking,” said Ander. “I think that we cannot stay where we are, drifting through space like sitting ducks. We’re too easy a target for malicious people—and if we’re to encounter any, down here in what is, in all likelihood, the Mitsarosphere, is the place to encounter them. Heck, if we just drift we might accidentally be scrapped by scavengers thinking they’ve found some free scrap.” He paused. “Hence, we cannot stay here. We must move somewhere, anywhere, other than here. We’ll find a planet to replace the nav computer, repair the thrusters, and resupply, and then we’ll take the most ideal hop back to Erionalis. Sound sensible to you guys?”
“It makes sense to me,” said Eldrae. Maddic agreed.
“It seems good,” said Andrea uncertainly. “However, how will we find a planet? As you said, our nav computer is down.”
“We can use our long-range sensors and our telescope,” said Ander. “Those still work fine. Granted, they don’t have the best range and won’t identify any planets, but the nearest stars all have inhabited planets if we are where I think we are—which is, as I said, the Mitsarosphere. We’ll just get in, get our parts, repair the Kolyan, and get out.”
“I don’t like that at all,” said John Buskin. “What if we get lost and fall off the Southern Gap? What if we encounter bandits or other rough types? There’s just too much uncertainty.”
“For the record, I agree,” said Feil.
“We should stay put and emit a distress signal,” continued John. “We’ll wait for the authorities to arrive and escort us to a planet where we can then, as you said, repair the ship and take the most ideal hop back home.”
“I disagree,” said Ander. “A distress signal isn’t a great idea at all. In fact, we should emit no signal of any kind. A distress signal is visible to everyone and might identify our ship. Bandits in the area might capitalize on it to try and raid us—heck, for all we know, the Recusatio might come back to finish the job it started. It might even know where we are and could be on its way right now. This is a no-win situation, but I think silently creeping back to a planet is still much safer than any sort of distress signal.”
“I doubt that,” said John. “Bandits would know that the proper authorities would be on their way and wouldn’t dare interfere with us.”
“That’s where you’re wrong,” said Ander. “You see, this is the Mitsarosphere we’re talking about—remember that Mitsari often doesn’t have enough ships to be able to respond to less urgent distress signals immediately; it usually takes a few days for them to answer most distress signals, and bandits know this too. Thus, they feel they have a few days in which to get in, plunder a vessel, and get out.”
“And how do you know this?” asked John Buskin, unconvinced.
“It was in the traveler’s guide given to us when we docked in Gozia,” said Ander. “The Gozian Interstellar Information Committee gives one to all vessels docking there.”
“Well, I’m not convinced that the information in those is real,” said John. “I, for one, say that we should stay put. Feil?”
“I agree with John,” said Feil.
“I agree with my husband,” said Alexa. “The rest of you?”
“I agree with Ander,” said Eldrae. Maddic and Andrea seconded this.
“Well, that doesn’t matter,” said John. “This expedition has become far too dangerous for children to lead it. We—the adult leaders—are taking control of it. We’re staying put.”


✸   ✸   ✸


Per John’s orders, Maddic and Agatha had fixed the ansible first after stabilizing the WDD. Now, eight hours later, both were online.
Per Ander’s orders, Maddic disabled the distress signal. “Sorry John,” he whispered to himself, “We have to follow our consciences.”
A few minutes later, accelerating very slowly to avoid alerting the leaders, the Kolyan blasted off into space in the direction of the nearest star.


✸   ✸   ✸


John Buskin, Feil, and Alexina had been furious. Walking into the bridge on a whim, they had been deeply surprised to find a full crew there—Ander captaining, Ander piloting, and Agatha and Andrea as general operators.
“What in the Sam Hill are you doing!” shouted John Buskin, his face reddening and a vein standing out. He was fully furious. Feil and Alexa were just as angry but were taken aback by John’s incredible ferocity. Much of the crew was really surprised as well and perhaps a little scared.
“I’m sorry, sirs and ma’am, but I couldn’t sit back and do nothing,” said Ander calmly. “My conscience told me that it was more dangerous to stay put and I had to act upon it.”
“Didn’t I tell you that the adult leaders were going to take control of this?” John Buskin vociferated belligerently.
“Aren’t me and Maddic both adults?” Ander pointed out. “We’re both over seventeen, as you should know, and per Erionalii scouting rules, student officers who are adults count as adult leaders as well. Hence, we are well within our rights.”
John seemed to growl. “No you were not. You were overruled.”
“Was I?” said Ander. “Last I checked, control of an expedition is either formally handed to one student or adult leader, or else control is shared between all officers—student and adults. And last I checked, I have more officer support than you do.” He paused. “Listen, John, I’m not trying to pick a fight with you—I’m more than willing to listen to any of your suggestions, and that goes for all of you.” He said this while gesturing to all of the adult leaders. “But the lives of my crew was—and mayhap still is—on the line. I cannot just sit back as I watch what I see as a faulty and dangerous plan risk endangering my crew. I took on the responsibility for their lives when I silently volunteered to be captain of this vessel.” He paused. “I know you understand where I’m coming from, as that’s the same reasoning you use against me.”
John Buskin had deflated a bit by the time Ander had finished talking, as Ander’s speech did indeed speak to John’s thought process; he wasn’t furious anymore, albeit still angry. “I’m very unhappy with what you’ve done,” he said. “I hope that’s very clear to you. However, I see why you did it. I won’t be sacking you today, however much I want to. Never do this again.” He stalked off the bridge.
Feil and Alexa were rather taken back by the whole debacle that had unfolded before them. They simply looked around and left.


✸   ✸   ✸


Three days later, the Kolyan had arrived at Mitsari. Ander had divided the crew into groups to do different things. Yelipson, Eldrae, and Agatha remained behind to continue working on repairs to the ship, and most of the rest went to get various supplies—food, mostly. Kefon and Maddic had come down planetside to find a nav computer, as these hadn’t been available at any of the part suppliers on the spacedock. It was a small piece, really, which could be carried by a single person and held in the hand. Kefon didn’t know anything about navigation computers and didn’t need to do anything; he was just there to satisfy Erionalii scouting troop rules, which required that all scouts have a buddy.
Kefon and Maddic had just left the supplier—the nearest one of any quality to the shuttleport—and were walking back to the shuttleport with their new nav computer. The roads here were poor, dirty, cracked boulevards of gray asphalt and a liberal layer of pale dirt and concrete dust that crunched underfoot. The street they were on—Avenue Stellarum, a grotty strip lined with sickly trees, graffitied concrete buildings, and beggars—connected with other roads of equally bad—or worse—quality, with some of them even paved with nothing but packed dirt. Clouds of dust blew across the streets behind groups of people and the occasional beater, obscuring the view down the ramrod-straight roads. The continuous babble of the city they were in surrounded them—chatter from people talking, calls for help from the many derilicts, the scraping of many shoes and a few tires on the ground, and the slightly off-key singing of a busker in a language Kefon couldn’t understand but which sounded grand and imperial. Rumbles of sound from landing airliners and shuttle launches from the shuttleport—it was just a free miles away—occasionally buried the din of the street in a blanket of noise.
“This place is not like how I thought it would be at all,” said Kefon. In tourist posters for the city, it was depicted as a grand, sprawling, technocratic metropolis, gleaming silver in the bright light of the sun, with its skyscrapers reaching high enough to touch the clouds. Those same skyscrapers could be seen miles into the distance on the other side of the spaceport, but it was clear that there was far more stick than chip here. The area directly next to the spaceport on their side was nice enough, but it quickly gave way to the pauperized expanse they were in.
“Mitsari isn’t a good place to be,” said Maddic quietly. “People don’t think of it as a third-world country, but they should. Outside of the very rich and a small middle class formed by the experts that are their management, most people are just different levels of poor. It’s not even that bad here; it gets far, far worse for many.”
Kefon shuddered. “Just how bad can it get?”
“Almost worse than you can imagine. There are reports from the Human Rights Watch that tell of massive shanty towns of vagabonds that drift from place to place, whole cities of the down-and-outs of society that are considered more dangerous than serving in the army, and an indefinite but large population of slaves which are owned by everyone from the richest man here to the poorest. It’s not good here.”
Before Kefon could answer, they were distracted from the abysmal state of the nation by a commotion on their street a block ahead. People on the left side of the street were crossing to the right as if avoiding something, and looking down as if they were attempting to ignore it. A shriek—sounding as if from a girl or young woman—rang out from there, followed by the indistinct rumblings of an angry man.
“What’s happening down there?” asked Kefon, curious.
“I don’t know,” said Maddic, his brow knitted. “Best if we avoid it, whatever it is.”
“It sounds like somebody in trouble,” said Kefon. “What if they need help?”
“Anybody here is probably better armed than you are,” said Maddic. “Even an antiquated six-shooter would be enough to keep you out of commission.”
At this point, Kefon and Maddic had come right up upon the commotion, and with the crowds of people gone they could see what was happening very clearly. A white man—not a Mitsari native—who was holding a whip was shouting at a short girl with bronze skin—perhaps a native Mitsarii or an Australii. She was crying and apologizing profusely. The whip was not the long, heavy, single-stranded whip used for driving horses; rather, it was a kind informally called the Rabid Fox, which was a wooden stick two and a half feet long, with four thin strips of leather attached to one end, each three feet long. On the other side was a metal sphere that weighed a few pounds. After finishing whatever he was shouting—he was barely legible—he whipped the girl brutally with the Rabid Fox. Three lashes hit her shirt and the fourth slammed across her face, leaving a long thin welt.
“A slave,” said Maddic as they approached.
Kefon was aghast. “Why would anybody do such a thing to a girl?” he asked, shocked. The man hit the girl again with the lashed end of the whip, and Kefon’s horror hardened into tempered fury.
“Kefon, no—” Maddic began, but it was too late. Kefon was walking toward the man.
“Hey there!” he shouted. “What are you doing to that girl?”
The man was plainly irritated at the interruption to his tirade. “Why would you curr? Are ya gonna fight about it?”
“As matter of fact, yes!” shouted Kefon impulsively. Passersby gave them suspicious looks, and some stopped to see what would happen.
The man looked at Maddic, recognizing that they were together. “Buzz off, ye scoundrel,” he said. Then addressing Maddic, he called, “Oi there, man, cumman’ get yer accomplice! ‘E’s causin’ a ruckus over hurr.”
But before Maddic could do anything, Kefon continued speaking. “How about this: we do a nice, old-fashioned fight, no weapons. If I win, I get the girl. If you win, you get three thousand Vingas—on the spot.”
One could see the man turning it over in his mind. On the one hand, he didn’t want to fight some incorrigible foreign twerp over a slave. On the other hand, three thousand Vingas was worth a lot on Mitsari—they would go a long way here. And besides, he didn’t really need the girl or care much about keeping her. She was more reliable than most, as far as he could tell; but he had bought her only a few weeks ago from a mining company for only 135 Nocks, so she couldn’t be worth nearly what the man—Kefon—had effectively just offered. And, being confident in his ability against this young foreigner, he was pretty sure he could keep the three thousand Vingas and his 125 Nock girl. 
“I accept yer challenge,” said the man, doffing his coat. He also threw aside a revolver and two daggers that he had in his belt. Kefon had no coat and no weapons; so he simply settled into a fighting stance. He was no weakling—he had been at the top of his class for wrestling, and had been known at his school as a boy to avoid attracting the ire of.
The two combatants circled each other slowly—once, twice, three times, each looking for an opening. Maddic and the girl kept a close watch on the circlers from opposite sides of the ring, a terrible fascination gluing them to their places. Other pedestrians stopped to see what was about to happen. They kept circling, gradually spiraling closer and closer to each other. One pedestrian shouted, “Come on, are ya really gonna fight, or are ya just gonna dance?”
All of a sudden, the man dashed at Kefon and attempted to deliver a wicked uppercut. However, Kefon dodged the fist, causing it to knock his nose. Kefon then punched the back of the man’s head as hard as he could. The man was moving to the side still, and this reduced the force of Kefon’s blow, but it still was hard. The crowd collectively gasped, for indeed a crowd was rapidly forming around the fight. The other man roared and spun around but was met by a haymaker right in the nose—he was neither trained nor agile, and Kefon was both. He managed to get a blow in on Kefon, however, which knocked him over backwards, unable to defend while recoiling from his previous attack. The girl’s hair stood on end and she cried out while the crowd groaned in sympathy. The man stood over him, gloating something fierce—Maddic, in shock, didn’t catch what he said, but it was rather cruel. Kefon wasn’t out yet however: he kicked the other man’s leg, causing him to fall as well.
“You were saying?” said Kefon.
The pair began to wrestle, the crowd leaning in to see the fight. The other man, physically stronger, prevailed at first; but Kefon was smaller and slipperier than he, escaping the other’s chokehold by reaching behind himself and choking him with his hands. He got under the bigger man and locked his arms down with his legs, and set the other man into a chokehold himself.
“Do you yield?” he growled.
“Never!” gurgled the man.
Kefon’s entire self seemed to twist, subjecting the man to an even tighter lock-and-chokehold.
“I say again, do you yield?” came Kefon’s voice.
The man started to reply but was cut off by a reasonable-sounding voice from the crowd.
“Oh lay off, Derrick,” said the man. “The girl isn’t worth this much fighting; you said yourself that she was only 135 Nocks just last week. And don’t go on about honor or something like that. You’ve proven yourself quite capable.” He must have been informed of the terms by an onlooker—or perhaps he heard the whole thing.
The fighting man—Derrick must have been his name—glared at the crowdsman, but then he muttered, “Fine. I yuld.”
Kefon had no interest in rubbing in his victory. He let go, stood up, and shook himself off. The other man got up as well—Kefon wasn’t so chivalrous as to help him up.
“Now,” said Kefon. “Our agreement?”
“Yah, yah, ye can take the girl,” muttered Derrick. “She wurrn’t worth ull this anyhow.” The crowd began to disperse, and Kefon stepped over to the girl. She shrunk back, terror in her eyes. Kefon, however, grabbed her by the hand and led her away, back to the spaceport, with Maddic following.
________________
Chapter Five - Lylah
But then we arrive—safely—to the place
Where we had charted to go, intrigued
By the foreign people, realizing
That we are the foreigners on their soil:
We are the strange people, not they,
As this is their land and their domain,
And we are only visiting upon it.
—Fourth stanza of The Stars, written by Rafar Etinçelle of Ellada, in the 47th year post-Blot


Ander had left for the engineering room to try and get some work done there after returning with the supply party. In there he wrestled with the internal comms to the rear right quarter of the ship; they simply didn’t want to work at all. Pretty much all standard fixes had failed, so he was now resorting to some duct-tape wizardry to get the job done—only temporarily, of course. He was interrupted from his jank job by the sound of the door to the cargo bay opening.
“Ho, Maddic,” he said, not looking up. “You and Sovereign find a new nav computer?” Sovereign was a nickname for Kefon, originating from a regal air he liked to put on occasionally; pretty much all scouts, boy or girl, had a nickname.
“Sure enough, Scicorp,” said Maddic’s voice. Scicorp was a nickname for Ander and is pronounced “Sigh-core.” Maddic continued, saying, “We also found some more besides.”
Ander looked up for the first time at Maddic. “I’m sure that you know that I have no clue what you mean, Beanpole,” he said with eyebrows raised. Then he looked behind him and saw the girl for the first time. “What the—who in my confoundation is this?”
Maddic looked at Kefon, who was turning to leave. “I told you that she would bamboozle the captain.” He turned to Ander. “This is a girl that Kefon found while we were down planetside.”
“Homeless?” asked Ander, standing up.
“No no no,” said Maddic. “A slave. She was being whipped by her master and it so incensed Kefon that he challenged him to fight over her. He won, being who he is, and won the girl from him. We couldn’t leave the girl there, so we brought her back.”
“How old is she?”
“She looks to be about fifteen or sixteen, but she hasn’t spoken a word to us about anything,”
“I’m fifteen!” The sudden words were spoken forcefully but quietly. Maddic was taken aback, but Ander, who hadn’t been subjected to her muteness on the twenty-minute return to the Kolyan, wasn’t.
He looked the girl up and down. She had the same bronze skin as an Australii, except that it was a touch lighter. Her eyes, however, were not the usual Australii brown, but rather green. Her hair was also incongruous—while most Australii and those who look like them had black or brown hair, her hair was a dark blonde. She was short, with Ander standing a full head taller than her—and Ander was a short man. She was incredibly skinny and appeared somewhat underfed. She was very dirty, grime covering her hands, arms, face, and clothing, with a dusting of the white dirt of the Mitsarii streets over that. Her clothes were in incredibly poor condition, covered in patches of various dull colors. It clearly had been a half-decent dress at some point, but many years of wear and repair had left it bedraggled, and it seemed almost to wheeze when she moved. It fit very poorly.
“Did you pick up any extra clothes for her while you were planetside?” asked Ander.
“No, but we should’ve,” responded Maddic. “I wanted to, and asked her what size she needed, but she wouldn’t speak.”
“Ah, well,” said Ander. “Andrea and Alexina are about her size and I know for a fact they brought far more clothes than they needed between them. Heck, even Eldrae’s clothes would probably fit. Install the nav computer, please, and then launch if we can. I might still be busy by then.” Maddic slotted it in, and Ander turned to the girl. “Well, what might your name be?”
“L-L-Lylah,” she stuttered, clearly afraid. “Lylah F-Florii.” Maddic had already finished—apparently he had already taken the old one out to speed the installation up. He left, closing the door behind him.
“That’s a nice name,” said Ander. “I’m Ander ne’Ver, and I’m the captain of this ship.” He offered her his hand to shake, but she recoiled, her eyes filled with terror.
“Ah-ah-ah!” she gasped, pressing her body against the wall. Ander put out his arm, and she put her head back as far as it could go and closed her eyes—but Ander just grabbed her hand and pulled her off the wall.
“It’s alright, I won’t hurt you, Lylah” he said. “Come on, let’s get you cleaned up, and then I’ll show you about the ship.” Ander tried to look calm, and kind, but firm. He smiled and was careful to keep smiling—something slightly contrary to his nature as a serious person.
Lylah, however, was still terrified. She leaned back against Ander’s grip, but he held on; she neither tried hard to wrench her hand from his, nor make a dash with Ander still holding on. She stared wild-eyed at Ander, starting to hyperventilate. She didn’t scream.
Ander could see that she was in the grip of panic and that he needed to change his approach to calming her. He let go of her hand and sat in one of the spinning office-type chairs that were bolted to the floor in Engineering. “Listen, Lylah, I’m not going to hurt you. I want you to know that you’re safe. You’re not in the hands of your previous master; you’re free now.” Little did he know that, in saying this, he duplicated the words of a fence that had caught her when she ran away from her first master—and then sold her to the mining company that Derrick had bought her from once he had gotten her home.
Lylah’s eyes went even wider than they had been, and she turned and ran for the door—but, being a stout ship’s door, designed to endure the vacuum of space and a lot more besides, she couldn’t open it easily and assumed that it was stuck, or perhaps locked. She battered at the door and screamed for help.
Ander knew that nobody was near engineering at the time—they’d all be at the front half of the ship—and that the door would let very little sound through. However, the situation with calming Lylah down had greatly deteriorated. The ship shook and flung Lylah backwards, and Ander knew that they had taken off. She got back up and resumed her battering, and Ander realized he had to act fast or Lylah would likely never trust anybody aboard.
Ander got back up, and began walking the few strides between him and her. She saw him, however, and did something unexpected—she delivered a very solid punch to Ander’s nose. She then threw herself backward, pressing her body into a corner formed by the wall next to the door and the ship’s mainframe, looking up at him with fear and apprehension. Ander was taken aback and he suspected his nose would bleed, but he was careful not to respond negatively. He just kept on smiling and kept coming toward her, which still seemed to scare her.
When he was within an arm’s reach of her, she had been completely cut off, backed into the corner. She lashed out like a wildcat—and that hurt! Ander had—against his own will, or in the defense of another—been involved in a few fights, and he recognized that she could hit fairly hard, even for a girl. But he just kept on coming, kept on smiling. A blink of an eye later, having crossed half the remaining distance and blocked off any exits for Lylah to run, he put out his arms, making no sudden movements. She battered at him harder, but rather than strike her, he put his arms around her and pulled her close against himself in an embrace. He also whispered to her quietly in a manner he thought would be comforting. He felt very ridiculous, but it seemed to work, as a moment later she stopped fighting and folded her arms under herself. She started to cry uncontrollably, and they stood there like that for several minutes. Ander saw how ridiculous the situation would look if somebody came upon them: Ander hugging a girl they hadn’t seen before—that he didn’t even know!—while she weeped, soaking the shirt he was wearing.
But nobody came, and eventually the tears slowed and then stopped. She pulled away, and if Ander hadn’t been holding her while she cried for several minutes, he would have never known she was crying—her eyes were bloodshot, but other than that there were no indicators. She looked him up and down. Ander realized that he was probably a sight to behold at that point, being a short, broad-shouldered and bronze-skinned Australii man with a square face, with his Erionali Scouting uniform soaked with Lylah’s tears and his face likely a picture of confoundation.
“You aren’t like most masters, are you?” she asked.
“I’m not your master at all,” said Ander.
“Well then who is?”
“Nobody. Kefon redeemed you from your previous master when he fought him and won. You’ve been emancipated.”
“I doubt that. None of you have filled out the paperwork necessary for that on Mitsari.”
“Well, Lylah, riddle me this: where are we?”
“The spacedock, I presume. Or maybe you’re thinking of this spaceship in the spacedock.”
“I was thinking of the latter. And do you remember that shaking of this spaceship—it’s called the Kolyan, by the way—that threw you to the ground?”
“Of course.”
“That was this spaceship launching. We’re already probably over forty billion miles away from Mitsari right now.”
Lylah sat down hard, dazed. “You mean we’re leaving Mitsari behind—forever?”
“Yes,” answered Ander. “Do you have family there?”
“Not that I’ve seen in a long time.”
“Ah,” Ander expressed. He felt awkward; he hadn’t meant to bring up a hard topic for her. “I’m sorry.”
“It’s alright. Where are we going?”
“I’m not entirely sure where Maddic has chosen to go. Probably Erionalis: that’s where we’re from. But also maybe not.”
“Ah, I see. I suppose anywhere else is better than Mitsari. I know that nowhere else has slavery legalized anymore, so I suppose I’ll be safe there.”
“Well, if you want to return to Mitsari for whatever reason, there are ways we can keep you out of slavery. If we can get you citizenship with any other nations that Mitsari recognizes you’ll be able to legally defend yourself against any slavers, not to mention you’re starting to look too old to be one easy to spirit away without repercussions.”
She shook her head and laughed. “I do not want to go back to Mitsari. It’s a hellhole down there.” She seemed all recovered and had brightened considerably.
Ander smiled. “That’s reasonable enough.” He took Lylah’s hand to pull her to her feet and said, “Come on, let’s get you cleaned up.”
Ander opened the door, a nautical-style sealed door that opened with a rotating wheel. It made a loud clunk and a sucking sound as he pushed it open and held it for her to follow. She came through and thanked him.
“You know, I really thought that that door was jammed earlier,” she said.
“No, it’s just hard to open.” Ander walked over to the corner of the cargo bay, where they had set up a washing machine and dryer for their clothes. “Let me see… If I know Andrea, then she’s probably left her clothes in the dryer again.” He pulled out a pair of blue jeans and a black Henley that said, in an aggressive red font, “The Six Lines,” with “Search for the Seventh Tour” in a smaller and more conventional font, with all the tour dates and locations on the back. It was for a band Andrea liked; she got the shirt at one of their concerts during that tour last year. “Do you think this’ll do?”
“I mean, I guess,” answered Lylah. “I don’t know who The Six Lines are, though. I suppose it’s a band?”
“Yes,” answered Ander. “I suppose there has to be more shirts in here if you want a different one.”
“It looks like a nice shirt,” said Lylah. “I’m just worried that this Andrea you’re taking clothes from will be mad that we pilfered one of her nicer shirts.”
“That’s true,” said Ander. “I don’t think she’ll be angry, but I’ll grab a different one just in case.” He put the one shirt back and grabbed a different one, a blue Henley—Andrea loved Henleys for some reason—with the word “truth” printed on it in faded white, all-capitals. A Christian cross was printed below it in the same milky white. “This one?”
“Sure, why not,” said Lylah. Ander grabbed some underwear for her from the dryer as well, and then they left the cargo bay through another large door. Ander was showing her to the restrooms, where she could shower and change. Lylah was uncomfortable in silence, so by way of making conversation, she asked, “So, where are you from?”
“Well, the whole crew of this ship hails from Erionalis,” said Ander. “But my family comes from Austral. We emigrated from there a few generations ago. I have just a touch of Erionali and Mitsari blood in me, as you can see by the fact that I don't have that dark aged-bronze skin of a pureblood Australii.”
Lylah laughed. “Damn! And I thought you were some jacked pedigree Mitsarii.” Ander gave her a side eye, and she said, “Sorry about the language. Being surrounded by slave language does things to a person’s tongue; you’d be amazed at the swears the ‘kind little maids’ use when alone or with other slaves. I’ll try to keep it under control.”
“Good,” said Ander. “And yeah, I’m not a Mitsarii.” It was his turn to laugh. “Although I suppose I really do look like one, albeit I don’t think most Mitsarii are as square-built as I am!”
“Yeah, you really are built like a square!” she said, chuckling to herself.
They had reached the door to the restroom. The ship hadn’t had signs to separate the boy’s door from the girl’s as it had come with the restrooms unseparated, so they had taken pieces of paper, written the sides on them with a marker, and then stuck them to the doors with transparent school tape. Lylah observed how jank they were.
“Yeah, well, we were running on a tight budget, okay?” said Ander. He handed her the clothes. “You can go shower in there. Feel free to use as much water as you want; we have a recycler. I’m going to change into my Class A. I’ll probably be done before you, in which case I’ll be heading up to the bridge. It’s easy to find; just wander around until you find it. Don’t go into the boys’ dorm, though. It’s been marked.”
“With the same janky paper signs?” she asked, feigning an incredulous air.
“Yep,” said Ander. “Now go get clean.” She entered the restroom, and he walked off to change into his Class A.
________________


Chapter Six - Buyer’s Remorse
Once I went up to town to buy
Something or other, I don’t remember why:
And when I got there the peddler
Was in town there too, seeming a great ‘n grand seller
Of all sorts of trinkets and tools,
Boxes and stools, and things for fools:
Suffice to say
I came away
The worse off in those transactions,
My pots lost their handles,
My glasses all broke,
And to top it off the new stove burnt the house down!
—The Peddler by Jerry Anderson of the Merion Consortium, written in the year 1,834 pre-Blot


Ander changed into his uniform rapidly, as befitted a first officer who had been a scout just over a decade. He also had to wash his face—his nose had started bleeding a little after Lylah’s haymaker from earlier. He immediately left for the bridge. He knew that, as they were leaving Mitsari, they would soon be entering Alcuwarp once they approached the correct angle on their slingshot. As the first officer and captain, it would be appropriate for him to be there. As he approached the bridge door, it slid open—the two doors to the bridge were the only automatic doors on the ship. As he entered, he saw all eyes upon him. John Buskin was the adult in the room, Lexanra and Star were general operators, Bendor sat in the free gunner’s chair, and Maddic was piloting. There was nobody in the captain’s chair. The navigation view was up on the ship’s computer, showing that they were routing for Erionalis as planned; it was counting down to the time to enter Alcuwarp.
“Status report,” he commanded.
Maddic was the one to comply. “All systems operational. T-minus three minutes fourteen seconds to entering Alcuwarp. Destination: Erionalis.”
“Excellent,” said Ander as he sat in the captain’s chair.
“Where were you?” asked John Buskin, suspicious.
“Handling something,” said Ander. “Don’t worry about it.”
John looked extremely dubious, but didn’t press the issue. It was quiet on the bridge—for all of forty seconds. The ship’s computer glitched, momentarily showing them as somewhere where they were not, on a course they were not traveling. Then it returned to the previous view, having lingered on the erroneous view for only a half-second. Ander stood, his eyebrows knitted.
“What was that?” he asked.
“I don’t know,” said Maddic. “Star, do you see anything unusual?”
He consulted her screen. “Nothing super unusual… There was a temperature spike in the nav computer, though, although I doubt that would cause that sort of error.”
The glitch reappeared, showing the same location and course as in the previous glitch. This time it stayed put, allowing all to see where exactly the ship’s computer thought they were. It showed them out several hundred light-years north of Gozia near some minor planet, routing to some blank part of space. And then everyone noticed that the countdown to Alcuwarp was only three seconds! Before anybody could react, the ship entered Alcuwarp at 100% as it had been preset. For just a moment, the navigation reverted to the proper view, showing them not on a route to Erionalis, but rather on a path that would throw them within a cat’s whisker of Foxicea, a planet north of the First Inhabited Density that was the last bastion of proper civilization before the Northern Gap; everything between the two were mostly space stations and planets so poor they couldn’t dock a ship larger than a destroyer.
Then the navigator died completely. “NAVIGATION FAILED” plastered the screen in big angry red letters. The rest of the computer system was still working, however.
John Buskin was incensed. “Oh, what the hell! We just spent—what was it?—2,900 Nocks on a nav computer only for it to fail completely. I told you we should have just stayed put!”
“This isn’t my fault,” said Ander calmly, pressing buttons on his control panel. “I can’t control whether or not we get a dud when we buy a nav computer on a shady planet.” He finished whatever he was doing on his panel and opened an internal comms line. “Feil, come in.”
“Agatha here, read you loud and clear” came a voice over the line. The internal comms quality was bad, as bad as a ham radio, so it was not nearly as clear as Agatha said it was.
“Agatha, can you get Feil on the line?” said Ander.
“Say again?” said the voice over the comms.
“Agatha, I need Feil on the line. I repeat: I need, I spell, foxtrot echo india lima, Feil, you read me?”
“Roger that, captain. Getting Feil, stand by.” The voice paused. 
“What was that?” asked Lexanra. “‘Foxtrot echo india lima’? What does that mean?”
“It's an old radio operator’s code,” said Ander, muting his comms microphone. “It’s the letters in the alphabet for ‘F E I L,” so I was asking for Feil. Nobody knows exactly where it came from. Even the few records that survived the Blot indicate that it was ancient even then, with no traceable beginning.”
“Interesting,” said Lexanra. 
A moment later, a voice came back over the line. It was slightly different from the previous voice, so everyone assumed that it was Feil. “Feil here, go ahead.”
“Affirmative, Feil,” said Ander. “Would you please investigate whatever just happened in Engineering? You read that?”
“Read you loud and clear,” said Feil. Of course, it wasn’t really very clear at all. “But why do you need that?”
“The nav computer failed,” said Ander. “We need you to check it out.”
“Say again? What failed?” said Feil. Ander made a noise of frustration.
“I spell, november alpha victor space charlie oscar mike papa uniform tango echo romeo. The nav computer! That’s what’s failed! Did you read that?”
“Roger and affirmative,” said the voice. “Wilco.”
“Excellent. I’m coming off the line, come back to the bridge to report.”
“Roger that.”
“Over and out.” Ander was really irritated at the state of the comms. “When we stop at the next planet we’re replacing the internal comms. A ham radio is better than this.”
“Well, the next planet we’re stopping at is Erionalis, isn’t it?” asked Bendor.
“I doubt it,” said Ander. “You saw the nav. We’re going to end up right next to Foxicea. We’re going to go there first, most likely, and there we can get the ship properly repaired. Then we can head to Erionalis.”
“I don’t like how we keep getting distracted from our return,” said John Buskin pointedly.
“Me neither,” said Ander. “But alas, ‘tis what we have to do. And think of all the stuff we can get signed off for doing this!”
John Buskin grunted. He wasn’t convinced, but he wasn’t going to argue. He did see that it made more sense to continue on their way to a planet where they could repair the Kolyan rather than make a foolhardy locker to a planet they couldn’t route to correctly. Nobody said anything for a few minutes. Then everybody looked up as the left door to the bridge opened.
Feil stomped in with a look of intense vexation on his face, appearing to drag something. It was evident that he was dragging Lylah by her shirt, who was once again terrified out of her wits. She looked at Ander, and that look conveyed “save me!” as loud as words.
Before Ander could say anything, however, Feil shouted, “Look at what I found! We seem to have a stowaway. I found her skulking along the left corridor.”
“Put her down, Feil,” said Ander calmly but forcefully. “Immediately.” Feil complied, and Lylah dashed to the other side of the bridge, pressing herself against the far wall. Ander continued. “She’s not a stowaway. Her name is Lylah Florii and she’s coming with us.”
“What?” said Feil. He was as angry as John Buskin might get. The latter seemed unusually calm at the news that they were bringing a strange girl and both amused and moderately disconcerted at Feil’s rage. “We didn’t approve you to bring some random Mitsarii bi— girl onboard! Why in hell do you think that this is a good idea?”
“Because it would be a worse idea to leave her behind,” said Ander, not cracking under Feil’s onslaught. “She was a slave girl on Mitsari. Kefon saw her being cruelly beaten by her master and challenged him to a fight over the girl. Being who he is, your son won, and per the terms of the challenge he won Lylah, and immediately redeemed her. It wasn’t safe to leave her on Mitsari, so he brought her here, onboard the Kolyan, where we could take her to Erionalis or leave her anywhere we stop between here and there if she so wishes. And now that we’ve left Mitsari, she’s staying. Don’t stand over her, or look angry with her, or I’ll raise Cain for you. She was horribly traumatized as a slave, so what you did bringing her here was not just aggressive, it was cruel. It took me ten minutes to get her to the point where we could talk like normal people earlier, so I don’t intend for that to be unraveled. Now, report on engineering!”
“Fine. She can stay, and I won’t interact with her at all,” he said sarcastically. “Engineering seems a bit of a mess. There was some smoke in there. The nav computer’s shot—burnt and melted. Everything else seems fine.”
“Good,” said Ander. He lifted up the screen and the armrests on his chair. “Lylah, can you come here?”
She complied, keeping a wary eye upon Feil, who stood by the door for a moment before turning around and leaving. She stood before Ander.
“Are you alright?” he asked, looking up at her.
“I’ll be fine,” she said. “Not the worst thing that’s ever happened to me.”
“Good,” he said. “The former, not the latter.” He stood up and turned her around to face the rest of the bridge as he addressed them. “Well crew, this is Lylah Florii. Her whole story has already been told, I suppose, so no need for introductions. Only, if you can, please introduce her to the rest of the crew for me. I’ll probably be heading below decks in a few hours.” Below decks mean the barracks in the jargon of the Kolyan’s crew. “I’ll captain for a while before that, though. Oh, and Lexanra, would you please take Lylah, find Andrea, and get her situated in the girl’s barracks? She does need a place to sleep tonight.” 
Lylah gave him a doubtful and slightly fearful look; she didn’t want to go with people she didn’t know. Ander whispered to her, “Don’t worry, they’re all decent people, and Andrea and the leader Alexa are wonderful. You’ll be alright. Go with them.” Lexanra got up as Ander said this. With one last look at him, she walked with Lexanra out of the bridge.


✸   ✸   ✸


Immediately after leaving the bridge—they left through the one titled “LEFT DOOR”—they turned left. The girl’s barracks were on the Right Corridor, so they had to make a left and then a right to get on the Right Corridor. Lylah had looked around a bit before she’d been caught by Feil, so she knew that the kitchen and the pantry were along the corridor as well, as well as a door to the supplies closet (which had doors on both sides). She was surprised at the state of the ship as a whole. She’d always imagined spaceships as places of great luxury, as great, shining, ships-’o-the-sky that only the richest could afford. Rather, she found a ship that was visibly old, and built as utilitarian as her old slave quarters were—if more durable and better maintained. Even then there was rust on the floor. She was also surprised how few people were about. She hadn’t encountered anybody out in the corridors until she encountered Feil.
Lylah was brought out of her reverie by being addressed by Lexanra, who wanted to make some conversation. Lylah had wanted to talk as well, being uncomfortable with silence, but she was more uncomfortable addressing somebody out of the blue.
“So your name is Lylah?”
“Yes,” answered the addressed. “Lylah Florii.”
“That’s a pretty name,” Lexanra said. “My name is Lexanra Telerui.”
“Well, nice to meet you, Lexanra,” said Lylah. Lexanra was a white girl, a touch taller than Lylah, who was of inscrutable nationality visually. However, when she spoke, her accent revealed a decidedly Estelcois bloodline. She had blonde hair and huge brown eyes that always made her look a little shocked. She was also quite skinny.
“Nice to meet you as well,” said Lexanra. She opened the door to the girl’s barracks for Lylah and they stepped inside. It was pretty barely equipped, but it was kind of messy. A bunch of lumps—Lylah recognized them as hammocks—were strung between the walls. It was pretty dark. “There are three other girls on the ship: Eldrae ne’Ver—who is Ander’s sister—as well as Alexina el’Deman and Andrea Bollahand.” She raised her voice. “Hey Twinsies! We need you!”
A muffled groan emerged from one of the lumps. “Oh, shut up Estelcois, can’t you see I’m trying to sleep?”
“Well, Spunks, you don’t get any sleep until you tell me where Andrea is,” said Lexanra.
“She just left a minute ago to get her laundry in order,” said ‘Spunks’ from inside her lump. “I thought I was finally going to get some sleep, but no, you had to barge in!” She didn’t really sound irritated, however.
“Well thanks, Eldrae,” said Lexanra. “I’ll be off now. Enjoy your sleep—if you can get any!”
“Thanks a lot,” snarked Eldrae. Lexanra and Lylah left and closed the door. They began walking back down the hallway.
“‘Spunks’? ‘Estelcois’? ‘Twinsies’? What do those mean?” asked Lylah.
“They’re nicknames,” explained Lexanra. “Just about all scouts, girl or boy, have one. ‘Spunks’ is Eldrae’s, ‘Estelcois’ is mine, and ‘Twinsies’ is Andrea’s. I expect you’ll get one sometime.”
“I did hear Ander call Maddic ‘Beanpole’ and Kefon ‘Sovereign’ earlier,” said Lylah. “And Maddic called him Scicorp. I didn’t really understand what I was hearing.”
Lexanra laughed. “Some of the nicknames come from pretty obscure references, so I’m not surprised. You never know what you’ll hear from this crowd.”
“So how many people are on this ship?” asked Lylah.
“Seventeen, well, eighteen now, with you onboard,” answered Lexanra. “I don’t remember most of them off the top of my head. Three adult leaders, five girls, and ten boys.”
“You people seem awfully young to be flying a spaceship.”
“That’s understandable. To be fair, we’re all children. We’re all from a scouting troop—the Starchasers—and one day some goofy child decided that we should go to space, and for whatever reason, Ander and Maddic enabled him. We scraped together enough money for a spacecraft and now here we are in space.”
“Wow, you are all rich,” said Lylah. “That’s crazy that you did it. How much was the spaceship?”
“About sixty thousand Gozian Vingas,” said Lexanra. “Here we are, if Eldrae was correct, Andrea’s in here.”
“Sixty thousand Vingas!” gasped Lylah. “That’s so much money!”
“Not really if you put your mind to it,” said a third voice. Inside the cargo bay there was another girl—Lylah assumed she was Andrea—who was putting clothes from inside the dryer into a hamper. She was the same height as Lexanra, with very light bronze—almost white—skin. She had blue eyes and blonde hair, which seemed incongruous with her complexion. She wore generic glasses with translucent plastic frames. Lylah guessed she was half Australii or Mitsarii and half Ethnii, Erionalii, Gozian, or Foxicean in ancestry. Then she seemed to notice Lylah and said, brows deeply knitted, “Who is this?”
“This is Lylah Florii,” said Lexanra. “Lylah, this is Andrea Bollahand, our Female Brigadier. Andrea, Lylah is staying with us for a while apparently, so Ander wants you to get her set up to stay in the barracks. I’ll help you with that too, by the way.”
Andrea picked up the hamper and balanced it on one hip. “All right, I gotcha. Orders from the top brass can’t be disobeyed, what. Come with me.” She closed the dryer.
The two left to return to the girl’s barracks. They opened the door to enter, and were met by a shout.
“CAN I JUST GET SOME FLIPPING SLEEP YOU BUFFOONS!”
________________


Chapter Seven - By and Anon
And when our visit ends we return
To our home planet, wondering
If we shall venture forth again, discussing
The wondrous sights we saw in the void:
And perhaps by and anon we shall finally
Decide to go to another distant world,
And see the wondrous sights again.
—Fifth and final stanza of The Stars, written by Rafar Etinçelle of Ellada, in the 47th year post-Blot


Ander wasn’t able to just retire to bed after dinner, unfortunately. John Buskin summoned an officer’s conference with him, Maddic, Andrea, and a very salty Eldrae, along with Feil and Alexa. It wasn’t clear to Ander what they wanted to discuss. He assumed it would be about Lylah and details about his plan to travel to Foxicea. Eldrae really looked very grumpy and tired, to the point that Ander was concerned about what was going on. Feil, Alexa, and Andrea hadn’t arrived yet, so the meeting hadn’t yet started.
“What’s up?” He asked Eldrae.
“I’m just so flipping tired,” said Eldrae. “Those girls were making noise the whole entire time. I got no sleep, and this is the fourth night in a row! I can’t be sleeping like it’s summer camp, I have work to do! That new girl—I think her name’s Lilly or something like that—needing to be set up in there didn’t help, although she tried her best to be quiet and tried to get the others to shut up too—she didn’t put it like that though—so I suppose she’s cool. I have no clue why we’ve picked up some random Mitsarii though.”
“I’ll be sure to try and get them to quiet down,” said Ander. “I’ll tell Alexa, but I think I’ll make a general announcement about it. I haven’t encountered any noisy people myself, but I do align my sleep when most of the naturally noisy people are awake, so I suppose that’s not unusual. And I’ve heard some grumbles about people making noise when others are trying to sleep, although when I come by they get quiet for some reason.” He paused. “Oh, and by the way, her name’s Lylah, not Lilly.”
“Thanks a lot, maybe I’ll finally be able to sleep outside of work hours,” said Eldrae. “And by the way, the reason they won’t talk to you about it is because they’re talking about you. You snore like a chainsaw cutting through ironwood.” She laughed at Ander’s over-the-top hurt expression.
“Do I?” he asked, feigning injury. “Do I really snore like a chainsaw cutting through ironwood?”
Eldrae was about to open her mouth to speak, but Maddic beat her to the bandwagon. “Yes,” he said emphatically. “Yes you do.”
Andrea walked in at this point. Hearing Maddic’s response, but not what he was responding to, she asked, “What does Ander do?”
“Andrea, do I snore like a chainsaw?” Asked Ander in response. Andrea typically stayed on the same sleep schedule as Ander.
She raised her eyebrows. “I would say you snore worse than a chainsaw,” she said with a sarcastically musing air. “More like a gravel grinder, or perhaps your car’s gearbox. And that’s coming from somebody who sleeps in a different room.”
“Ouch,” said Ander, wincing. “I suppose I’ll have to ask Sovereign if he has any extra mouth tape.” Kefon was another world-class snorer onboard.
“You could also ask John Buskin,” said Maddic. “He usually has some for some reason, although I’ve never heard him snore. Though that might be because he always uses it. I can never tell; it’s perpetually dark in there.”
John Buskin had been working on something on his laptop, which he had brought to the meeting. He looked up at the mention of his name. “You could ask me for what?”
“Ander needs mouth tape,” said Andrea, Maddic, and Eldrae simultaneously.
John Buskin emitted a rare chuckle. “I have some extra, if you need it.”
“I think I do,” said Ander. “Perhaps then I can finally stop unintentionally persecuting my underlings.”
At that moment Feil and Alexa walked in and John Buskin immediately turned serious; he was a man of business, if not a businessman. Everyone else followed suit, wanting this over as quickly as possible. 
“I’ve convened this conference to iron out a few details about the next stage of the journey,” said John Buskin. “Firstly, we need to know exactly what we’re doing on the way to Foxicea, and what we’re going to do there. This includes duty rosters for the trip. We also need to discuss how to integrate Miss Florii into the standard ship’s duty; she can’t just go free if she’s going to be here for the month-and-a-half trip to Foxicea, and even more so if she’s going to stay longer.” He paused, clicking and swiping on the laptop. “Ander, I presume you already have a plan for the trip and stop at Foxicea, at least generally?”
“I do,” said Ander. “The trip itself is simple; we can operate similarly to how we have been. The main issue for it will be keeping the crew happy. I expect homesickness will kick in soon for most people now that the novelty of space flight is wearing off, and some people will probably be irritated of what shifts and jobs they have or jealous of others’ shifts or jobs. Burnout, basically. There might also be some powerplaying for authority, especially from the political quarter, although I’m confident that won’t be a large issue overall.” The “political quarter” was a group of scouts at Starchasers Troop that excelled at strategy, politics, and sometimes powerbrokering; there were three of them in the crew of the Kolyan: Star Vlindma, Bendor Aviel, and Veril Gem. “For the first issue, we’re going to need to increase the number of calls home. I noticed we didn’t have one today, even though we were scheduled to. That was unacceptable.”
“It was,” said Maddic. “Why didn’t we?”
“We tried,” said Feil. “It wouldn’t go through. The ansible was working fine; the issue was that it was reporting that ‘this address does not exist or was removed,’ which isn’t a good sign.”
“No it is not,” said Ander. “I wish you had told me about this earlier.”
“I had sent a text about it while you were out for supplies,” said Feil.
“My carrier doesn’t have any towers on Mitsari,” said Ander.
“Oh,” said Feil. “Well, sorry about that. I didn’t know.”
“It’s no big deal,” said Ander. “I didn’t either until I got off the ship. Anyways, we’re going to have to make an announcement about this. It would be deceptive of us to hide this issue. I’ll do that with the rest of the announcements from this conference tomorrow morning.”
John finished jotting that last statement down in his laptop. “Alright. And you said the next problem was burnout?”
“Yes; I think people will want a break, or at least to switch jobs around,” explained Ander. “To solve this I think we should start rotating shifts and switch to flexible rosters. I also think we can sneak in a couple days of nothing but essential work just now to give people a break.”
“Alright,” said John Buskin. “And you said the last problem was likely going to be authority jockeying. So, what should we do if it does occur?”
“It depends on the situation. Some politics is a natural and acceptable state of affairs, if not ideal. If we are overbearing on stamping it out, not only will we stress the crew, we’ll likely lose the trust of the Political Quarter—and that will probably cause a number of problems for us. However, if it becomes dangerous, we should definitely stamp it out.”
“And how do you propose we carry that out?”
“I’ve noticed that there is a sort of unofficial pecking order that’s emerged among the crew under the officers. Especially now that we know we’re going to be in space for several more months at least, I recommend that we make it official and give people opportunities to move up it. And if people are excessively political, overbearing, or just plain incompetent, we can demote them to where they’re better off.” He paused to let John Buskin finish typing this down. “That might cause some friction with the crew, but the changes in the roster and the shift schedule should offset that, and if properly executed it will improve things besides our political situation.”
“Right,” said John Buskin. “And speaking of the roster, let’s do that now.”
“Actually, I think we should do it last,” suggested Ander. “Firstly, Eldrae and Maddic don’t actually need to be here for that, and I’m sure they want some sleep or have things they want to do. Secondly, we don’t know what Lylah is skilled at doing. We’re going to have to bring her in before we do that, so we can put her on the roster correctly. For all we know, she might have some good suggestions as to how to pull this off, given she was probably a player in the slave hierarchy under one of her previous masters and may have experience with some of the tasks normally delegated to officers, and certainly knows how various policies went over with the other slaves there even if she didn’t have a hand in creating them.”
“I think you’re greatly overestimating her authority in her past life,” said Feil, John Buskin typing away. “She was, after all, a slave.”
“Perhaps,” said Ander. “But anyway, we need her here for the rostering.”
“I don’t argue with that,” said Feil as John finished typing. “Should we summon her here?”
“I don’t see why not,” said Ander. “John?”
“I think we should,” commented John Buskin.
“Alright,” Ander said. He got up and used a panel on the wall to open an internal comms line. “Hello Kolyan, this is Ander. Could somebody bring us Lylah Florii to the officer’s conference?”
A moment later: “Roger that Ander, this is Twin. I’ll bring you Lylah.”
“Thank you. Over and out,” finished Ander. Turning to the other people there, he said, “Honestly, I think that the internal comms sound much better in here than they do back in the bridge.”
“The bridge is separated from the rest of the ship electrically,” said Maddic. “We have analog comms, so the issue is probably the radio gap given they sound fine in here.”
“What’s a ‘radio gap’?” asked Alexa.
“The basic idea is that you put two radios on opposite ends of a tube,” explained Maddic. “Rather than run a wire from one place to another, you use them to transfer analog signals over the air, to minimize work if the bridge is separated from the rest of the ship for repair. They’re also used to transfer computer signals, but generally these digital gaps don’t suffer from signal degradation with age like analog ones do.”
“I see,” she said.
“No wonder the bridge comms sound like a ham radio!” exclaimed Ander. “They literally are ham radios. That would be extremely funny if it weren’t so irritating.”
At this point Lylah entered the room. “You asked for me?”
“Yes, we did,” said Ander. “It’s not fair to the rest of the crew if you stay onboard without doing any work, so we need to ask you what you’re capable of doing so we can put you on the duty roster correctly.”
Lylah looked suspicious, but not frightened. “I thought you said I was redeemed, and now you’re telling me I have to do work and have no say in whether or not I do it?”
“I’m afraid I am,” said Ander. “However, I will mention that that is the case for everyone onboard, from Lexanra all the way up the stack to me. Even the three adult leaders do a lot of work, even if it isn’t obvious. And imagine how the other mates of our crew would feel if they had work to do and you didn’t. I’d have a very untenable situation as the de-facto captain of a ship that is certain to be in space at least another two months. And you doing work doesn’t make you a slave. When we stop at Foxicea, you can get off there and never see any of us again, if you so choose. In fact, if you want, I’ll write up, sign, and notarize a document saying that, when we stop at Foxicea and if you choose to stay, I’ll help you get citizenship as much as I am able.”
She didn’t seem suspicious anymore, but her countenance was inscrutable. “No; I think I’ll pass,” she said. “You all seem trustworthy enough. So: what will I be doing?”
“Well, what we need most right now is menial chores, to be honest,” explained Ander. “Cooking, especially. Alexa still does some of it, and her doing any cooking is not acceptable. We—the scouts—are supposed to be doing all the work; the adult leaders are here to supervise and help with administration. There are other things that could use some more help as well. But that’s not the question I asked you: what are you competent at doing?”
“Well, I can cook decently enough,” said Lylah. “I mostly have experience in menial tasks like cleaning and whatnot. I was a maid during most of my time as a slave.” She shuddered at the recent memory. “Those would be fine, I suppose.”
“Excellent,” said Ander. “Thank you, that was all we needed.”
She didn’t leave, however. “If I may ask, what sort of roster are you using, and how are tasks allocated?” she inquired.
“We’re switching to flexible rosters for the trip to Foxicea,” Ander explained. “So, for example, three people might be assigned to cook on any particular day at particular meals. But, if they wish, they can negotiate with us and with each other to get a different day or different shift. We’re also instituting rotating shifts so that people don’t always work the same shifts with the same people; we think it’ll reduce burnout.”
“That sounds reasonable,” said Lylah. “Just a word of caution: you might be swamped with requests if you make the roster too flexible, and people may be irritated when they don’t get the shifts they want too many times in a row. Just be careful, is all I’m saying.”
“Thank you,” said Ander. “We’ll keep that under consideration.” Lylah turned and left. “Now,” continued Ander, “time to get to the new roster.”


✸   ✸   ✸


A few days later, well away from Mitsari or any other planet, Lylah and Eldrae were finishing up work in the kitchen. One was putting food, utensils, and various other things away, while the other washed dishes. The kitchen was small, but it was effective enough for the ship and its inhabitants, with a small commercial stove, an oven, a generous refrigerator and similarly sized freezer. There was an island in the center, which provided counter space, and a somewhat hidden door that provided quick access to the pantry. There was also a window to the hallway next to the sink, used to serve food without hungry crewmates barging into the kitchen.
Ander’s head appeared in that window, surprising Eldrae. “Hey girls,” he said. “How’s it going?”
“It goes well enough, especially when bilge rats like you don’t scare the souls out of your poor galley pogeys by materializing like a bloody phantom!” said Eldrae. “What are you even doing here?”
“Ah, I’d just finished helping Glasses and Brit move food from the supply closet to the pantry,” said Ander. Glasses was Yelipson Nazha’el, and Brit was Peter Shingle. “I’d thought that I’d come over and see how you’re doing.”
“Well, I’m doing fine,” said Eldrae. “I’m getting close to finishing these dishes. And if you want hot water for your shower tonight, you better let me finish them too.”
“Alright, alright, point taken!” Ander put his hands up as part of a faux show of innocence. “I’ll let you finish.” He looked at Lylah. “How are you?”
Lylah realized he was talking to her; she had just been looking at him. “O-oh, uh, I’m alright,” she stammered.
“Glad to hear it,” said Ander. He smiled. “Well, I have to take that shower you mentioned, Eldrae, and get ready for some shuteye. Have a good day, you two.” He walked away.
Lylah exhaled—and realized Eldrae was looking at her. She rushed to get back to her work and hoped she wasn’t blushing. Eldrae went back to her dishes.
In a moment, however, Eldrae said, “You know, I think somebody has a crush on a certain officer.”
“I wouldn’t know who you’re talking about,” said Lylah, a bit too innocently. “Nobody ever tells me any of the scuttlebutt around here. I didn’t even know that Alexina and Bendor were together until two hours ago, when somebody mentioned it over dinner.”
“That’s because it isn’t part of the scuttlebutt,” said Eldrae. “Don’t make me put it bluntly.”
“Put what bluntly?”
“Alright then, if you insist. I think you have a crush on my brother.”
“What? No—” said Lylah, but she could tell she was blushing.
“Nah, you do,” said Eldrae.
Lylah huffed. “Fine, but—just don’t tell him, alright?”
Eldrae smiled. “Don’t worry, my lips are sealed.” Eldrae had finished her dishes and turned off the water. As Lylah moved to put the last things away, Eldrae pulled out her smartphone and texted somebody.
“Who are you texting?” asked Lylah suspiciously.
“Oh, just a couple of enablers I know,” said Eldrae. “Specifically, Andrea and Maddic.”
“Isn’t it their shift right now?” asked Lylah as Eldrae put her phone away.
“It sure is,” said Eldrae. “And it’s your free hours. Come with me.” She walked out of the kitchen. Lylah put one last thing away, and then she followed Eldrae. 
“What did you tell them?” she interrogated.
“Oh, nothing directly,” said Eldrae, “But they’re masters of induction. I suspect they’ve figured it out already.”
“Oh, Eldrae!” whined Lylah. “Why’d you do that?”
“Don’t worry, you’ll see,” said Eldrae. She grinned. “And they won’t tell Ander. They’re trustworthy.” The bridge doors slid open and they walked down the stairs. Andrea was being interim captain, and Maddic was still piloting the ship (his shift wouldn’t end for another three hours). There were no general operators, and Lylah was surprised to see no adults either. It was just them four on the bridge.
“Thanks, Maddic and Andrea, for doing this,” expressed Eldrae. “I think this’ll be very helpful for Lylah.”
“No problem,” said Andrea in her usual quiet manner.
Maddic stood. “Of course! We’re happy to help,” said he. Turning to Lylah: “So, let’s get started, shall we?”
“Uh, what are we doing?” asked Lylah. “Eldrae hasn’t told me anything.”
“You’re going to learn to pilot,” said Maddic. “Here, sit here.” He motioned to the pilot’s chair.
“Uhm, alright,” said Lylah. She sat down tentatively and looked at Eldrae as Maddic sat in the general operator’s chair on the right-hand side. “I don’t see how this’ll help though?”
“Aha, don’t you see where you are?” said Eldrae. “If you want to get yourself near Ander, what better way than to be taught how to sit in the chair you’re in right now? My brother has a lot of duties, but by far the most time-consuming is sitting in the captain’s chair, if you know what I mean.”
“Oh—Eldrae!” said Lylah, both blushing and looking worried at the same time. “What if he finds out?”
“I doubt he will,” said Eldrae. “Sometimes he’s so businesslike that he doesn’t notice hints like you would give off. And if he does, he’ll be very nice about it, no matter how he feels about you. But again, I doubt he’ll find out; he won’t know until you tell him.”
“Well, alright,” said Lylah. She pulled the pilot’s control panel down in front of her and looked at Maddic. “So, what do I do?”
________________
Chapter Eight - Foxicea
“No.”
—Poet Phrodo Voulivel of Dyskotsi in the 481st year Post-Blot when asked to write a poem by his fans about Foxicea, citing concerns over the socialist nature of the Foxicean economy and over his dignity as a Gozian.


It took one month, two weeks, and five days to fly the 245 light-years to Foxicea. It had been a difficult trip, with people getting homesick, cranky, and sometimes just plain unhappy for no reason. In addition, the trip to Foxicea had been at the exact limit of their supplies—two more days and they would have run out. But they had made it safely, and now they were docked.
Despite how eager people were to relax and get away from the Kolyan, Ander saw to it that supplies and repairs were seen to first. The decision to do this had been made when Ander was talking to Star on the way. The conversation had went something like this:
“Honestly, I hate Foxicea,” said Star.
“And why is that?” said Ander.
“They’re so flipping socialist! I can’t stand it. The only thing that’s useful about a socialist planet is that resupplying is generally cheaper for wayfarers. Everything else is ridiculous—the functional tax rate is, like, eighty percent here! And entering business is hard—there’s just a plethora of reasons why it’d be irritating to live here. I understand that we’re allied with them, and Erionalis can be a little socialist at times, but Foxicea is just insane.”
“That does sound irritating,” said Ander. “I suppose it’s good for us it’ll be cheap, though; we don’t have that much money left.”
“Oh yeah, it’ll be nice for us,” said Star. “Docking is free. I also hear they give steep discounts on supplies and repairs for ships the first day after they dock too.”
“Oh, really?” said Ander unironically. “I’ll be sure to get everyone on those first thing, then.” And he was sure, despite enough grumbling from some quarters to make it sound like there was an earthquake in the next town over. It was a good thing, too, because they nearly ran out of money—just enough for one more resupply if needed on the way back to Erionalis.
However, they finally finished that, and Ander caved to the wishes of his crew—and of the adult leaders, although they would never admit it—and they all took a shuttle down to the capital of Foxicea, known as Zhelas.
On the flight down, Star said, “Alright, I’ll say one other thing about socialism—the public transit here is very nice.” That was an understatement. Foxicean public transit was famous across Inhabited Space for being futuristic and high-quality. Its interstellar shuttles were even rumored to have Alcubierre Drives with benchmark speeds faster than even the top-end state-of-the-art, although this could never be proven (It was rumored they had 512-B rather than 500-B Alcubierre Drives in the year the Kolyan visited there). Even the planetary shuttle was spacious and of high-quality, being fast, sleek, and comfortable—and free, supported by the tax dollars of native Foxiceans and by the punitive import tariffs that corporations paid.
“‘Very nice’? You sit in a first-class shuttle for the first time in your life and you call it ‘very nice’?” This came from Veril Gem, who was directly behind Star and on the left side of Ander.
Star laughed. “Alright, General, you’ve got me there. I just can’t admit to myself that any socialist planet can be so much better than any given capitalist planet.”
“Well, you have to admit it,” said Ander; Veril had returned to his own conversation. “I think they’ve finally figured out how to make socialism work.”
“Not really,” said Star. “They just figured out how to import a lot of stuff while charging great prices for it. The underlying problems of socialism are still present, just as the underlying problems of capitalism are still present in the Gozian Empire.”
“Well, that’s all very interesting and all,” said Ander, “but honestly, I don’t really care. They don’t impress their beliefs upon me and I return the favor. And anyhow, I appreciate it when it makes such luxury cheap.”
Star laughed. “Indeed! Cheap luxury is nice for us tired capitalists who are wishing for some relaxation.”
“But you gotta do it on your own dime!” called Andrea from across the aisle. “It’s only right, you know, as the capitalist you are.”
“Ah, fine,” said Star. “I have all the money I need. And you are right, ‘tis but appropriate.”
Lylah was squashed between Eldrae and Emar a row behind Ander. Or, more correctly, Emar was smushing Lylah against Eldrae, and Lylah was then smushing Eldrae into the wall. She just wasn’t having it anymore, although Eldrae didn’t seem to care—seating three teenagers in the middle row of a minivan would do that to you. Lylah grunted and said, “Soda, if you don’t scoot all the way to the end, I’m going to bash your skull in.” Soda was Emar’s nickname.
Eldrae leaned around to clearly see what was happening and a passing flight attendant gave Lylah a side eye, but Emar was unfazed. Known by the crew of the Kolyan as a smooth, sweet boy to set a new girl’s heart aflutter, Emar put his arm around Lylah’s shoulder. He had seemed to take a moderate liking to Lylah. “Ah, but do you really need the extra space?”
Lylah made an uncomfortable face. “Uh, yeah, dude, I do. Get your arm off of me!” She shrugged out from under Emar’s arm and returned it to his side.
Ander turned all the way around as the shuttle shook due to some minor turbulence. “You alright?” he asked. “You don’t look very comfortable, Lylah.”
“Oh, I’m well enough,” she said. “It’s just that this buffoon is trying to make a sandwich of me.” She had improved a lot at remaining coherent around Ander. 
“I know the feeling,” said Ander. “Sitting between Eldrae and my other sister Riva in my mother’s car is like being put in a compression chamber. Although” —he looked at Emar— “Soda definitely has more room to scooch over.” Addressing the latter, he said, “I recommend that you do move over a bit, Emar, if you want to keep your head.”
“Alright, alright, fine,” said Emar. “Be chill. I’ll scoot over.” He did as he said he would.
“You be chill!” said Lylah. “You’re the guy who just put your arm around me like we’re best friends or are—together.” She had picked up on slang terms quickly on the Kolyan. “I’ve known you for forty-six days, man.”
Emar faked innocence. “Oh, all right, if you say so!”
The rest of the shuttle ride continued in this manner until they arrived in Zhelas, with boisterous chatter, bad jokes, and a few people squashed against the wall. The shuttle didn’t have any windows (few shuttles did), so they couldn’t see the city as they descended to the planet’s surface. When they landed in Zhelas, however, the appearance of the shuttleport gave a very good impression upon the crew of the Kolyan, with chic, futuristic architecture and advanced technology. Ander went up to the front desk and bought a paper map of the city—for tourists, after all, some things don’t change.
“So, guys, there are a few places we can go first,” said Ander. “Firstly, there are hotels which are free for tourists; it might be worthwhile to check into one first. After that, there are a lot of different things we can do. There’s a central park, a movie theater, and several highly-rated restaurants… But remember, whatever we do, buddy system is mandatory, and truddy for mixed-gender groups. Otherwise, feel free to roam around on your own dime, so long as you’re back by our designated meeting place at 2130 hours local time.”
“I’m down for the park first after the hotel,” said Andrea. “I want some real sunlight and trees after three months in space.” Several people agreed with this. 
“Alright then,” said Ander, “how about this: we check into the hotel and drop everything off, then we go to the park for a while before splitting up to explore the city. That sound good to everyone?”
“How will we be made aware of any emergencies?” asked John Buskin, referring to the adult leaders.
“A lot of people have smartphones,” said Ander. “And anyhow, there are free phones in all government buildings and a lot of private ones. I already looked into this before we came.”
“Ah, good, then,” said John. “Well, then, go ahead. I won’t stop you.”
“Alright crew, on to a hotel,” said Ander.
It took about ten minutes to reach the one of choice. The streets had unusual construction—while the roads themselves were fairly conventional (Zhelas was one of the few cities that completely adhered to the Universal Union Consistent Planning Standard), the huge sidewalks were not, and over the roads floated, about sixty feet in the air, what appeared to be planted platforms covered with trees, roots forcing their way out of the bottom of these platforms and vines stippled with flowers of various colors hanging over their sides. Most intersections also had these platforms over them. They didn’t seem to have anything to hold them up, so Ander assumed it was magnetic levitation—something that was reinforced by a sign warning that magnetic objects could not be brought within twenty feet of the platforms. These platforms casted the city in constant shade, much to the annoyance of the crew of the Kolyan, who wanted to see the light of a sun properly for the first time in many months (They would later learn that walking any significant distance was actually supposed to be done on these platforms; they were connected to buildings and each other by hanging bridges that were hard to see from street level).
The hotel they had chosen was a middle-class hotel of the name The Grand Empire’s Hotel, clean with a few of the old trimmings of luxury, but built practically. The only exception visible upon entering was the common room. Such rooms, already uncommon in hotels built after the blot, were rapidly vanishing from even old hotels, converted to cafeterias or dancefloors or theaters or some such chamber. This room, however, was great and grand, with a tall stone foundation and wooden walls that went forty feet into the air. A grand fireplace sat in the center of the back wall, burning a fire Ander was sure was of real wood. In great, golden, stylized cursive letters arranged vertically on the chimney was one word: ELEUTHERIA. In smaller letters on the mantelshelf were the words, “Libertas Mundial: World Freedom.” Two huge identical banners with pointed ends, one on each side of the fireplace, hung from the wall, colored a tan brown with a black bar dividing the top from the bottom, with a torch symbol superimposed over the bars. On the roof was a preposterously huge chandelier, supplementing the light from the fireplace. The floor was real hardwood, with a large, beautiful, and very old circular rug laying near the fireplace. There were various sofas and chairs arranged in a half-circle in front of the fireplace, with a few people on them. Quiet and calm classical music emanated from a record player in the corner of the room.
“Hey Bendor,” said Ander, “What do you know about Eleutheria?”
“Not a lot, really,” said the addressed. “It’s a landmass in the World Union. It means “liberty” in Ethnii. A nation called the Império da Liberdade sits there, which used to be a member of the Great Universal Empire and is now part of the World Union. An exception is the Isle of Flightless Birds, which was a colony of theirs that gained independence just before they joined the WU and remains sovereign. None of this” —he gestured to the banners and the writing on the chimney— “seems to have anything to do with them. The flags aren’t familiar, and while Libertas Mundial matches their vibe, it doesn’t have anything to do with them.” He paused. “Actually, I think Libertas Mundial is the Gozian Empire’s intelligence organization. That’s very odd.”
“Huh, it is,” said Ander. “But anyhow, we have to get checked in now. We can ask about it later.”
They ended up with four hotel rooms—one for the girls, and three for the boys. Something that they hadn’t noticed earlier was that the hallways to get to some of the rooms—including theirs—ran along the side of the common room opposite of the fireplace, with wrought iron railings to separate the hallway from the airy void. Upon entering their rooms, the hotel’s prevailing practicality was evident everywhere, with a few details evidencing ancient and bygone imperial splendor tucked away. The carpet was a basic office-like beige color, and the TV was a little old, but the small amounts of hard floor present were rich hardwood, and the walls had a faded pattern that once would have been grand. Most of the lights were simple and workmanlike, but the main room had a glass chandelier that cast a soft, warm light. The restroom was by far the finest part of the rooms, with a large shower of real marble tiles and with a smoked glass panel for a divider, becoming much less translucent and more opaque about one-third of the way down. The floor tiles were polished limestone, but the marble theme continued on a beautiful sink, which has a cabinet and three drawers containing various cleaning supplies, makeup, and various things for a person’s toilet. A large, ornate mirror with a gilded frame sat above that. The john was pretty standard, however.
Ander was considered the adult leader in his room, and he had Peter Shingle, Kefon el’Deman, Bendor Aviel, and Star Vlindma with him. There was a bit of a debate among the latter four about who would get the trundle bed—as the two large beds in the room could only comfortably sleep two people each.
“Alright, my minions,” began Ander, “as your Supreme Overlord by the Whim of the Universe, it lies to me to decide who has to take the trundle bed. As the Grand and Glorious Despot of hotel room B34, I decree that I shall not be the one relegated to such a position. But as I am a fair and just hegemon, I shall listen to each of your arguments for avoiding the small trundle bed.”
“Lieutenant Colonel is too high an authority for such a lowly bed,” said Kefon in his most regal voice.
“That doesn’t ma’er when there’s a Brigadier General in the room,” said Peter, his accent swallowing the T’s.
“You shouldn’t insult the only extant member of Groundcrawler Squadron,” claimed Bendor.
Star only said, “Everyone else is shorter.”
Ander put on an announcer voice. “And for single-handedly insulting everyone else in the room, you have earned yourself one trundle bed!” said he. “Enjoy your stay on Foxicea.”
Star scowled and everyone else laughed, and then the whole crew unpacked as far as would be needed. Having done so, they met up with the rest of the troop by the common room, ready to walk—or take public transit—to central park. As it happened, there was a subway system that would take them straight there, although they got a little bit split up during the journey. The subways were fast, clean, and sleek, although they were plainly older than the shuttles they had been on previously. They were also very full and more utilitarian in construction. But they did the job well enough, and after just a few minutes Ander found himself in Zhelas’ Central Park, waiting for stragglers to arrive on the next train.
________________
Chapter Nine - Foxicea, Part Two
“Still no.”
—Poet Phrodo Voulivel of Dyskotsi in the 487st year Post-Blot, when asked again to write a poem about Foxicea by the Universal Union.


Everyone agreed that Central Park was a sight to behold. It was an impressive 13 square miles in size, being four miles by three and a quarter, and the planners had used every inch of it to maximum advantage. There were lots of trees, of different kinds found all across Inhabited Space. Flower beds were interspersed among the trees, especially near clearings. The paths, while mostly standard concrete, often had patterns or murals inset in them. A map procured from the park entrance also revealed three ponds—one larger, two smaller—and an artificial stream that connected them.
And the sun—it was just wonderful to behold! After not seeing the sun for months and months, seeing the sun, and trees, and grass, and flowers—it all infused them with a joy they hadn’t experienced in a long time. It was brighter than they could really stand, but it was a glorious brightness that they loved after the flat warm glow of the Kolyan’s lighting. The troop dispersed across the park to explore, relax, and unwind—but not before Ander gave them some last instructions.
“Alright crew, before we disperse, I need you to listen to me,” he said. “I reckon that we’re probably not going to want to regroup until we meet back at the hotel. Therefore, I’m going to reiterate my instructions from earlier: buddy system is, again, required, and truddy at least for mixed groups, even at the park. You do not have to regroup with us after you’re done here; in fact, I don’t recommend you try, because you shan’t find us. You don’t have to contact me or the leaders unless there is an emergency, and, while I cannot enforce this, please stay inside the city. You must be back at the hotel by 2130 hours local time; for the nonmils here, that means nine-thirty p.m. on a local clock. You must be back by this time, unless there is something out of your control stopping you—no, traffic does not count—or an adult leader approves you to be out longer than this and you alert all of the adult leaders. Maddic, Agatha, and I count for this, but I’m going out on a limb and saying that Emar and Lexanra do not, on the basis that they are less mature. If you do stay out past 9:30, remember that the hotel doesn’t let anybody in between 11:30 and 4 a.m. You will be taking on extra chores if you stay out long enough to be stuck out of the hotel. Last but not least, follow local laws. If you’re unsure if it’s legal, find a computer and look it up. Anyways, I apologize for being so long-winded, go enjoy yourselves!”
The crew of the Kolyan formed groups and wandered off. Ander ended up being the center of his own little group: besides himself, Maddic, Lylah, Eldrae, and Star had joined him. They got a frisbee from the park visitor’s center—they chose to buy it rather than rent it, as it was only four Nocks—and headed to a nice, open clearing to play. They talked as they tossed the plastic disc in a circle. Ander took the opportunity to poll on his leadership ability.
“So, folks, I have a question for you,” he said, grinning. “I just want an honest answer from you. I promise I won’t be insulted, no matter what you say. What I want to ask is this: am I hopelessly terrible as captain, or just kinda bad?”
Everybody laughed. “You’re pretty hopeless,” said Eldrae, and Ander put on an over-the-top sad face. “But, maybe not completely hopeless.”
“You guys are such hecklers,” said Star. “Did you already forget about the escape from the Recusatio? I, for one, sure haven’t.”
“Hmm, that’s true,” said Eldrae. “I supposed we can promote you from pretty hopeless to just plan-old daft.”
Ander pretended to be incredibly gratified. “Really? For me? You’re too kind.”
“Ehh, I dunno,” said Maddic. “I still think you’re a heckler, Eldrae.”
“What do you expect?” said Ander. “Spunks is my sister. If she calls me daft, I’m doing pretty well in life.”
“That’s fair,” said Maddic. “It’s pretty much the same situation for me, I suppose.”
“What I can’t believe is that you’re both a child and the captain of a starship,” said Lylah.
“Bro, what?” said Ander. “You think I’m a child?” He huffed melodramatically. “I’ve been grievously insulted! The preposterousness of the accusation!”
“Well, you are, like, seventeen,” said Lylah. “Anyhow, you are a boy scout.”
“I’m not seventeen, I turned eighteen three days ago,” said Ander. “And I’m not a boy scout, I’m an Erionalii Scout—there’s a difference. And, by Erionalii law, a child becomes an adult when they’re seventeen, not eighteen like on Mitsari and some other planets.”
“Oh,” said Lylah. “That’s actually interesting. Is that peculiar to Erionalis?”
“No, it isn’t,” said Ander. “Estelethna, Austral, and Burharrin are all the same. The Gozian Empire is even weirder: they have what they call the ‘Gap,’ which is basically a period where you’re neither a child nor an adult in the eyes of the law; rather, you’re somewhere in between. Most of their provinces have this set between sixteen and eighteen years old, but some, especially in Vitatincelle and Dyskotsi, have different ages.  A very few base the gap as being the two years after being medically determined to have entered puberty; every now again a story emerges from those places of girls who finished their Gaps at eleven and are married with children by fifteen.”
“Wow,” said Lylah. “That’s wild!”
“It sure is,” said Ander. “It’s kind of weird, to be honest.”
“Nah, I think it’s cool!” said Star. “Maybe I should emigrate there after this and become a politician.”
“Star, you’re a politician enough without adulthood,” said Maddic. “Maybe you should just stick with your forums and manipulate people from there.”
“Oh hush, Beanpole,” said Star, putting on a ridiculously evil grin. “There’s never enough manipulating people!”
“What?” said a new voice. “There’s never enough what?” A white boy—he appeared to be about Maddic’s age, although it was hard to tell—was approaching them. He was very tall and had full facial hair. His voice also sounded older than he looked. “Oh, and do you mind if I join?”
“Not at all,” said Ander. “And Star said that there was never enough manipulating people, by the way. I’m Ander.” He threw the frisbee to the new kid, who passed it to Maddic.
“That’s not very groovy of you,” said the new kid. “And my name’s Erbalshmire. Just call me Erb though. Nice to meet you.”
“Erbalshmire… that’s quite a name,” said Maddic. “And I’m Maddic.”
“It sure is,” Erb said. “It’s not very common these days. It hails from before the Blot; my parents found it in some old documents that came from their Elders and thought it was a fun name.”
“That sounds unfortunate,” said Maddic.
“It sure is! It’s quite the pain at school,” said Erb. “Anyhow, who’s everyone else here?”
“The people manipulator over there is named Star,” said Ander. “The really short girl is my sister Eldrae, and the other one is named Lylah. We’re all from Erionalis.”
“Ah, I see,” said Erb. “I suspected you weren’t from around here. What brings you to Foxicea?”
“We’re actually all part of Erionalis Scouting,” Ander explained. “Something pretty neat that you can do as a part of that is to actually fly and operate a starcraft as a mission—or whatever Foxicean scouts call it. We scraped together enough money to get a spaceship, and here we are.”
“Erionalis is an awfully long way from here.”
“It is. We originally intended to go to Gozia, and succeeded; but on the way back we were forced to fly when we encountered a bandit. Our systems were somewhat damaged so we flew to Mitsari for repairs, and then our nav computer failed so we were forced to fly here, which is right along the track we were on when it failed. We got the ship fixed up, but we wanted to spend a day planetside to unwind after months in space.”
“Wow, you’ve been through a lot,” said Erb. “I’m impressed. I would have buckled under that kind of stress a long time ago. Is it just you five?”
“Oh, no,” said Ander. “There’s eighteen people all in all—three adult leaders and fifteen scouts. We’re all at the park, but we’ve dispersed pretty far.”
“Ah. That makes more sense,” said Erbalshmire. “Who leads your escapade?”
“I do,” explained Ander. “I’m the First Officer of the troop, so I captain the vessel. The adult leaders are just there to supervise.”
“That’s very impressive!” said Erb. He looked over his shoulder to see the source of a shout. A middle aged lady was standing there, beckoning at Erb. “Well, it seems I have to go. Good luck out there. Be careful, for I think more people will be standing in your way!”
“Thanks!” said Ander. “Have a good day.”


✸   ✸   ✸


“Well, that went well, Vanessa,” said Erbalshmire.
“Is it them?” asked the middle aged lady, apparently named Vanessa. She seemed very worried.
“It has to be. Ander, Star, Eldrae, Maddic, Lylah—all the names match up. Their history does as well. They’re the ones we have to keep an eye on.”
“I hope you’re right. There’s a lot riding on this. If they don’t beat Shintaria—”
“I know, Skelmrelm-167 and the Homaric Pact Nations will parcel up this whole galaxy before the Interstellar Gozian Empire can repulse them and bring in Skelmrelm-0. Over a trillion will suffer for it.”
“I really hope you know what you’re doing,” said Vanessa.
“Don’t worry, sister, I do,” said Erbalsmire. “They don’t call me the Time Traveler for nothing.”
“But what if the Prophet or Scimus or Skelm Relm-167 the First come after you? What if the Homaric Pact Nations find out? What if Libertas Mundial decides to shut you down? What if—”
“Vanessa, Vanessa, it will be alright,” said Erbalshmire, the original Time Traveler. “I can operate no matter what they do. I brought Christ to Fictia before any of those organizations were even a twinkling in their founders’ eyes. They can’t stop me.”
The two people seemed to grow blurry, and then winked out of existence, an empty space replacing them.


✸   ✸   ✸


After some time exercising in the fresh air of Zhelas’ Central Park, Ander’s gang regrouped betwixt the park entrance and visitor’s center. Their next task was to find out what they wanted to do for the rest of the afternoon. In a sprawling metropolis such as they were in, there was no shortage of things to do; it just wasn’t easy to choose between them. They were a comical sight, all five of them sitting on a single park bench, Ander holding out a tourist’s guide to see everything on it while everyone else leaned in to see, sitting cheek to cheek.
“Alright folks, here’s what I think we got,” began Ander. “For dinner, there are a few different places we can go, all of which look decent. Does anybody have any requests?”
“I want something spicy,” said Star.
“What! No,” said Eldrae, drawing out the latter word. “I don’t want to feel like I have the sun sitting on my tongue. I’d like something cool to the taste.”
“I’d actually like something spicy,” said Lylah. “I could use some livening up.”
“Well, honestly, I just want some good, properly-kinda-unauthentic Zhenderen food,” said Maddic. “If you all can mold your desires to fit with that, then I’m happy.”
“I think that would be just fine,” said Ander. “It fits what everybody’s looking for and is different enough from what we’ve been having. There seems to be a good one not too far away. Now the question is, what do we want to do before and after that?”
“Can we please see a movie?” said Eldrae. “Please?”
“Any objections?” asked Ander. None were put forth, so he continued. “Well then, that’s all right then. We can do that. And for this afternoon? We still have several hours before dinner.”
“Remember those platforms over the streets?” said Star. “Well, if you look at them from here, you can see they’re actually nicely planted and have people walking all over them. I wouldn’t mind going on a bit of a tour of the city over those. I could still do with some more fresh air—and the rest of you might need to meet this thing we call a ‘shower’ before we do anything serious indoors.”
Eldrae huffed. “Speak for yourself, stink-meister!” She sniffed. “Actually—maybe you’re right.”
“Well then, we can do that,” said Ander. “I have no problem with being outside further. Maddic? Lylah? You two haven’t said anything about it.”
“I agree with Star, actually,” said Maddic.
Lylah shrugged. “I don’t care. I’m happy to do whatever. Still beats that old box of iron, if I’m being honest.”
“That’s fair,” admitted Ander. “So, Star, how do we actually get on these platforms?”
“I wouldn’t be surprised if you can get on them through any old building,” said Star. “I bet there are stairs or an elevator to get on them from the street, though.” He looked closely at the platforms over the streets, and sure enough, there was an elevator on a building near the park entrance for getting on the floating walkways. He pointed at it. “See, there we are. We can get on them from that.”
The group stood up, walked out of the park, and went over to the elevator. It was quite large, and could easily hold their entire party. It made a peculiar whirring sound as they ascended. Lylah asked why it did that.
“I thought elevators were supposed to creak and grind,” she said.
“Nope, not this kind,” said Maddic. “My old employer had one of these put in. It works by magnetic levitation rather than a motor and counterweight. They’re pretty neat.”
The elevator came to the top and opened onto a platform—which was a very pretty sight indeed. It was planted with grass kept slightly long, cleaved by a brick path grown partially over with moss, the grass next to it clearly unedged. Roses and other bush-like flowers grew along the path, gaps present to allow passing through easily. They appeared to have been allowed to grow naturally, but were covered in flowers and didn’t have the leggy and wispy appearance of an overgrown plant. They also stayed in neat bounds, not pushing into the path. A bench sat next to the path, an unpainted, wrought-iron vintage, yet clean and not rusted at all. An unpainted wooden trellis arched over the path on their right, vining flowers—perhaps morning glories—growing up and over every inch of the structure. The entire place felt like it had been intentionally allowed to become aesthetically overgrown.
“This is beautiful,” said Eldrae. “It’s like a park had been forgotten and left to grow as it saw fit.”
“It does,” said Lylah. “It’s so far from the hustle and bustle of the street down below us.” As it was, the building rising into the air above them, even if only a few stories, was an odd sight indeed.
The group walked along to their right, under the trellis, chatting away as friends do. The platform ended just after the trellis, but what appeared to be a simple rope bridge spanned the small gap—four or five feet—to another platform, similar to the first except it had a tree rather than a trellis. Upon further inspection, however, it was revealed to be quite rigid and solid, wholly unlike an actual rope bridge. Lylah didn’t like it, however.
“I’m not going on that thing,” she said fearfully. “It looks dangerous.”
“Well, well, whatever shall we do?” said Ander. “You have to get across somehow.”
“No I don’t!” said Lylah, turning to face him. “Not on some janky-ass piece of rot that could fall down at any moment!”
“Well, we can’t leave you behind, so we have to get you across somehow.” Ander smirked. “I’ll just carry you if you don’t get across by yourself.”
Lylah turned back to the bridge to hide that she was blushing; nobody but Eldrae noticed, who gave a slight smile. “Uh, I don't think that will be necessary,” said the former. She hesitated, then dashed across the bridge as if it were trying to drop her. Everyone else laughed, then she joined in too. “I suppose that wasn’t really necessary.”
They continued ambling along, enjoying the change in scenery from the city below. As they walked into the center of the city, they were intrigued by changes in how the platforms were landscaped and planted. Some of them had hills—especially on the big avenues. Most intersections had a platform that covered the whole thing, while some were crossed with bridges similar to the ones between platforms. As they went further towards the city center, there were more and more trees, until the appearance of a dense and calm forest was achieved such that it was hard to believe that they were in a city. 
Occasionally, they came upon some interesting detail about the park. In one place early on, over an intersection, they found a rabbit warren in the corner, along with a snake, which engrossed Star and Lylah for several minutes while grossing out Eldrae. One huge intersection, easily over a hundred feet on a side, interrupted the forested background with a pond, which had to be walked around. A fish jumped as they walked by. Some streets had streams running along the platforms, sometimes for great distances.
They even came across a sign that revealed the history of the platforms: about forty years ago, there was a park—Cinnamon Park—that lay near the city center, and it was quite dear to the Zhelasi. However, eventually the population of Zhelas exceeded the amount of space available, and they were forced to tear down the park to make room for new buildings. Before they did that, however, the city authorities split up the park into parcels and placed these parcels on platforms designed to float over the streets of Zhelas, so that Cinnamon Park might be maintained for future generations.
“That’s really clever,” said Maddic. “That’s quite a technical feat.”
“They should do this for Werulfar Park and Grindelwald Square back home,” said Eldrae.
“They should!” said Star. “That’s a good idea. Sure beats demolishing those old lots. I’d like to see that some day.”
The path continued deeper into the city. As they went further and further, markers of various businesses began to pop up. Most of them were in the form of banners hanging from poles, with a title above it. They walked past quite a few of them. They were about to walk past another when Ander stopped and looked at it. The banner was tan with a black bar and the image of a torch superimposed over it—the same as the banners inside the Grand Empire’s Hotel. And, sure enough, the sign over the banner said “The Grand Empire’s Hotel.”
“Hey guys!” said Ander. “Look, it’s our hotel right here.”
“Oh, huh, I had no clue we were on the same street as before,” said Eldrae. “Hey, we’re already here, why don’t we hop in and change and take a shower? Goodness knows that we need them.”
“You want to know what?” said Ander, “that sounds like a great idea. We’ll all go do that, and let’s meet back here.”
“Uh, there’s one problem,” said Lylah. “Alexa has the girl’s room key.”
“I’d reckon similar for us,” said Maddic. “John Buskin has our key.”
“Well, I have my room key, and I have money,” said Ander. “Any of you who can’t get into their own rooms can shower in mine. If any of you need a change of clothes and can’t get them I’ll just order them. This place should have rapid delivery. Since I suppose that we’ll all be going up there anyway, we’ll just all go up to my room.”
“Oh thanks, that’s nice of you,” said Eldrae. “Based on the smell, I’d reckon we all need changes of clothes.”
“Right then, let’s get down there then.”
________________
Chapter Ten - Into the Night—Again
Hello the Stars,
My old friends,
Shining bright here,
Breaking through,
Plastered upon the black dome of night.


Hello the Stars,
Looking far,
I seek for you,
My old friends,
Waiting within the black dome of night.
—My Old Friends, written by Estel Aléla of Novapopulum, in the 201st year post-Blot


The cleaning-up process was a bit of a riot. It was later than they thought it was, so they were rushing to get ready for dinner. As it turned out, everyone except Ander and Star needed a change of clothes out of a locked room, so Ander had to order three sets of clothes—one for Maddic, one for Eldrae, and one for Lylah. He got straightforward things for Maddic and Eldrae, as they already had plenty of clothes anyway and just needed to get things to change into; for them he selected blue jeans and t-shirts, each of the latter having an image on them. Maddic’s was black with white dots and the words “Certified Star Man” in a futuristic yellow font, and Eldrae’s was red with an image of a spaceship.
As for Lylah, he went a little nicer: she didn’t have any nicer clothes as she was forced to borrow from Eldrae and Andrea, a situation all three were fairly happy with. But the truth was that Lylah owned nothing—not even the clothes on her back. She had long ago chosen to throw away her old grimy dress that she came to the Kolyan with. So Ander, realizing this, decided to get her a cute two-piece dress, with a green skirt with an embroidered edge that went to her shins and a straightforward sky-blue blouse. It was a little odd even to eclectic Erionalii taste, but was fairly standard Foxicean style, derived from old fashions from the Hinterlands of Burharrin: they had passed several women wearing dresses similar to this one both in the park and on the platforms. It had been only fifty-five Nocks—achieved via heavy subsidies and price ceilings imposed by the Foxicean government.
“Here Lylah, here’s yours,” said Ander, giving her the dress.
“Thank you!” said Lylah enthusiastically.
“No problem,” said Ander. Eldrae walked out of the restroom at that moment, changed into her new clothes and her hair shiny from her recent shower. “Here, Eldrae’s out of the shower. It’s your turn.”
After everyone was done getting ready, they left to a Zhenderen place to eat some food. They had seen one that looked pretty good on the walk from the hotel to Central Park, so that’s the one they went for. It’s menu and decoration were based upon the old legend of the Qiku Dynasty—a mythical nation from Zhenderen culture that bravely endured warfare from a multitude of enemies, lasting twelve years of continuous warfare against long odds before finally succumbing to Merionalis and its coalition. Or, that was how the story went. In reality, it was considered highly unlikely that they ever existed at all, and even among those that do consider it real, most do not believe the modern nation of Merionalis led the coalition.
But no matter how real it was, the legend made for some pretty architecture. The restaurant—named Qi Ku Chufang—had a bronze theme, with two bronze lions in the Zhenderen style outside the front door and lots of bronze decorations inside. The wall was painted intentionally badly, with some areas much darker than others, the color a terracotta red. On that wall hung various paintings from the attested history of Qiku. The seating was straightforward: simple wooden tables were the primary options, with four berths available as well, built and painted similarly to the wall, with bronze trimmings. The seats had green cushions of the same shade as aged copper. 
A young lady—clearly not of Zhenderen nationality—came up to them. “How many?”
“Five,” answered Ander.
“Table or berth?”
“Berth.”
“Alright, come with me.” The lady led them to an empty berth. She set down a little marker with the number four on it, and dropped five menus. “We’ll be right with you to get your orders.” Ander sat down on the left side, and was followed by Lylah and then Star. Maddic and Eldrae sat on the other side.
“This place looks nice,” said Eldrae.
“It does,” said Lylah. “I like all the bronze. Very imperial looking.” Everyone opened up their menus—except for Star. He sat looking at the painting that hung over their berth.
“Hey Star, aren’t you going to get food?” asked Maddic.
“Yeah, but—look at this painting. Look what it depicts,” said Star. The painting showed two kings shaking hands after signing an agreement. But in the background hung two flags—the alleged Qiku flag, and the flag of Gozia!
“Is that the Gozian flag?” asked Ander. “Why is that there?”
“I don’t know,” said Star, “But there’s some words under the painting by Maddic. Could you read them?”
“‘King Phrodo Dom of Taer’duolei and Emperor Shanyao of the former Shang Dynasty form the Imperialist Qiku Republic after the First Taer’duolese-Shang War,’” read Maddic. “Huh, that’s really odd. I wonder why they used the Gozian flag when painting this.”
“Well, I don’t know,” said Eldrae, “but I think we should order food first.”
Then followed a period where everyone focused on their menus to find what exactly they wanted. Maddic immediately said that he wanted the spicy noodle soup. Eldrae, never the biggest eater, ordered a nondescript salad. Lylah got the spicy chicken, which was pieces of chicken breast marinated in a spicy sauce and laid on a bed of rice and lettuce, with more of that spicy sauce on the side, along with soy sauce. Ander ordered a similar dish that had the sauce mixed into the rice, along with pieces of broccoli, carrots, and baby corn. Star ordered the same dish as Ander, just the non-spicy version.
After the food arrived, they returned to the subject at hand. “So, Star, what do you know about this Taer’duolei and the Shang Dynasty that the painting mentions?”
“Not much,” admitted Star. “The Shang Dynasty doesn’t really register upon any histories, even ancient legends, at least as far as I know. I’ll ask on the forums later. As for Taer’duolei, there’s a lot of ancient legend surrounding them, although I don’t remember much. Like Qiku, they’re considered purely legendary, but there’s even more recorded about them than Qiku has, so some people think they were a nation pre-blot. They formed when what was called the Gozian Empire—it’s odd, isn’t it?—conquered an Estellian nation called the Republique d’Intonie. For nearly seventy years they expanded, conquering and colonizing new lands, including several wars with Qiku, generally called Taer’duolese-Shang Wars, along with several other nations, and at least two betrayals of allies. At the end of those seventy years, one of their enemies, Nomina Worlde, attacked Qiku with nuclear weapons and an ally of Qiku, the Meritocratic Staffonian Anarchist Republic, retaliated, causing a nuclear winter. To escape, Taer’duolei built spaceships and flew into space to colonize another planet. Eventually, they were forced off of that planet too, and it is said they became roamers, known as the Interstellar Gozian Empire, building better weapons until they destroyed their old enemies, and now they watch over the new Gozian Empire from afar, guarding them from attack. Or at least, that’s what’s said.”
“That sounds like something I’ve heard before,” said Lylah.
“What do you mean?” asked Ander.
“It reminded me of a poem I was taught by my mother,” she explained. “It goes something like this:


“Three thousand years after the fall of the Empire,
A new one will rise in its place.
Woe to the nations that will burn in the fire,
For fate has an unforgiving face.


“Cold as ice, the Empire will come,
Stronger than old enemies like Skelmrelm seeming;
With destruction emerging as fission’s sum,
It will not stop until all are dead or kneeling.


“Watch for when the circle of Ithrius is crossed,
For then Direach’s inheritance will come for thee.
You will be trapped in a prison of the frost,
Crying out for death to set you free.


“A lucky few will escape to the far inky void,
Setting up new lives on new worlds.
But the Empire’s birthright is them as well.
They will be caught someday.


“Or, that’s how I think it goes. It was a long time ago.”
“Wow!” said Star. “Your mother taught you the Imperial Prophecy. It’s been a long time since I’ve heard that.”
“It’s called the Imperial Prophecy?” asked Lylah. “That’s interesting. My mother never told me the name; she just said it was a prophecy passed down through our family. She also said that the first part of the prophecy was fulfilled but the second half hasn’t—the last two lines of the poem haven’t been completed.”
“I’m going to have to ask about that,” said Star. “Did she teach you any others?”
“Oh yeah, I learned lots of different poems,” explained Lylah. “I can tell you some, if you’d like.”
“I would!” said Star. “Fire away.”
Then followed about thirty minutes where Lylah, and then Star and Eldrae, recited interesting and antiquated poems from their childhood. After a while they had gotten completely off-track and had forgotten, at least for the time being, their original conversation. After a while, Ander realized that it was then 1900 hours—they only had two and a half hours left before the time they were supposed to be back.
“Hey guys, we only have two and a half hours left,” be brought up. “Y’all have to get your rears in gear if we still want to see a movie.”
“Oh yeah, let’s go,” said Star. “You should probably tell the leaders that we might be a touch late.
“That’s a good idea,” said Ander. In the officer’s conference group chat, he wrote: Hey guys, we might be a little late. The gang wants to see a movie.
A moment later: Right ho. See you soon.
Ander paid and then they left. As they left, he said, “Alright, I just let the other leaders know that we might be a bit late. I saw a really nice movie theater on the way to the hotel, as a coincidence.”
Maddic was on his phone. “What’s it called, so I can put it in the map?”
“You know, for a pilot, you have a horrible sense of direction,” said Ander. “I remember where it is, I’ll just lead us there.”
“Huh, well, if you say so,” said Maddic. “And I don’t have a terrible sense of direction, I just don’t do well with big cities.”
Ander rolled his eyes. “Whatever you say, mister pilot.”


✸   ✸   ✸


The next day, Ander and Maddic were preparing the Kolyan for takeoff. Last night’s movie had been decent but forgettable, and they had arrived back late as they had taken a wrong turn. To make things worse, John Buskin had come into Ander’s hotel room to get something and had noticed the girl’s clothes in there, so of course Ander had to smooth that over with him. John Buskin always seemed to assume the worst of a situation, and for that and many other reasons Ander found it difficult to work with him. But the old archaism that the testimony of two or three witnesses is more often found trustworthy held water in this case, and after Maddic and Lylah explained what had happened John calmed down. Ander was worried about the state of his working relationship with the adult leaders, as he knew that something might happen that strained it to the breaking point; but it wouldn’t be that day. They had finished the last few prelaunch checks in the bridge, with Alexina supervising, Lylah in the other gunner’s chair, and Agatha and Andrea as general operators.
Ander realized he had to attend to something. “I have to do something. I’ll be right back, but feel free to finish the launch without me. I doubt much will happen; just be sure to route to Erionalis.” He got up and exited the bridge.
“Alright,” said Maddic. After Ander was gone, he beckoned to Lylah. “Come here; you should learn how to properly launch a spacecraft.” At this point, just about everybody except Ander and John Buskin were in on the fact that Lylah was being taught to pilot.
“Oh, alright,” she said, sitting in the pilot’s chair. “How does this work?”
“I’m going to walk you through the whole process beforehand, as I’ll have to talk to the spacedock control during the launch,” he said. “Pay close attention, as you’ll have to remember the whole thing while we launch. Remember to do these things only when I report to control that we’re doing them. The first thing you’ll need to do is press the door symbol to open the spacedock doors. At the same time, you’ll need to press the big red button next to it to charge the spacedock’s electrostatic catapult. When it says ‘ESC Charged’ on the screen, tell me, and prepare a 100% main thruster burn. When I say we’re launching, activate the thrusters and then hit the electrostatic catapult immediately afterward, in that order. If you do it the other way around, it’s very likely you will hit the wrong button and cause some kind of mayhem. After that, route to Erionalis and the computer will take over. You’ve got all that?”
“I think so,” said Lylah. “Open the spacedock doors and charge the catapult, tell you when it’s charged and prepare a 100% thruster burn, and when we launch do the thrusters first and then the catapult.” She paused, making sure she hadn’t forgotten anything. “Oh, and then route to Erionalis. Is that it?”
“Yep! You’ve remembered it all,” said Maddic. “We’re going to launch now.” He opened a channel to SAN/Mo3. “Hello control, this is E-2 powering up and looking for takeoff.”
Over the ansible came, “E-2, please wait until our word for takeoff.”
“Understood,” said Maddic.
Just a few seconds later: “E-2, you are free to launch at your leisure.”
“Opening dock doors and charging electrostatic catapult,” reported Maddic, looking at Lylah. She opened the doors and began charging the catapult.
A moment later, just before the doors were open, Lylah announced, “Electrostatic catapult’s charged.”
Satisfied with that, Maddic asked, “Crew, are we all prepared for takeoff?”
At that moment, Ander walked back into the bridge. Agatha and Andrea were rushing through menus, mumbling to themselves as they checked all systems. “All systems clear!”
“Alright crew, sit down and hold on to something!” said Maddic over the internal comms. To the spaceport control, he said, “This is E-2 taking off, in three… two… one… now!” Lylah hit the thrusters and catapult just as Ander noticed she was piloting. After the initial burst of acceleration, Maddic said, “Control, this is E-2 signing off on our launch. Over and out.” He closed the connection.
Lylah hit some buttons. “Routing to Erionalis.” She hit the necessary buttons and then switched the main screen to the navigation view. “Enabling autowarp. Warp expected in T-minus three and one-half minutes. Pre-charging Alcubierre drive to 100%.”
Ander, having sat on the stairs and held onto the rails to avoid being thrown backward, now got up and stood in front of Lylah, his brow furrowed and his arms crossed. “What are you—Maddic, what is she doing piloting?”
“She came asking for lessons,” explained Maddic. “So, of course, I obliged, seeing as she’s a sensible person.”
“How long has it been since you started?”
“Six weeks.”
Ander whistled. “Dang, my teacher didn’t even let me pilot the simulator until eighteen weeks. What sort of lobbying did she do to get you to do that?”
“Oh, she was very persuasive. And she’s a natural at it, too. She picked it up right quick.”
“How many hours of your shifts has she taken?”
“Maybe a third, at most. Possibly less.”
“Well, I suppose that sounds reasonable enough,” said Ander. “I suppose we’re going to have to refactor the pilot’s shifts. But in the meantime, Beanpole, you can take a break, I suppose. Go get some sleep or something; goodness knows you work enough. I’ll take over the captaining and Lylah can stay.”
“Alright then,” said Maddic. “Have fun.” He got up and left the bridge, yawning as he did so—he had been up all night.
Lylah was wondering what she would say to Ander if he asked why she had wanted to learn piloting. She didn’t want to say the truth quite yet; it was embarrassing, and besides, she doubted Ander was ready to hear it just yet. She didn’t really want to lie to him, either, so she set herself to finding some half-truth that would explain it satisfactorily. She breathed a sigh of relief, however, when the ship was hailed—she’d probably be able to get out of explaining, now.
“A hail? Already?” questioned Ander from beside her, asking nobody in particular. “Who in the Sam Hill is hailing us now?” He opened the lead and, before the hailer could get a word in edgewise, he said, “This is Captain Ander ne’Ver of the starcraft Kolyan. Please state your message.” Cutting off the hailer in this manner was a moderately more polite way of saying, “Hey, you butthead, I’m not in the mood to be answering pointless hails, so this better be important or get outta here.”
“This is Corporal Jeremiah Watson,” came a voice over the munible. “You have been determined to be a government vessel operating without license. Please leave immediately.”
“Sir, we’re not—” began Ander, but he was cut off.
“Nope! No ‘but’s,” said Corporal Jeremiah Watson. “Get out of here now!”
Ander was indignant. “But sir—”
“No! I said no ‘but’s!” said Corporal Watson. “Leave now, or I will be forced to open fire! I will not be held responsible for your choices.”
During this whole exchange, Ander had gotten redder and redder, and finally he snapped. “Listen, you asshole! The Kolyan is not a government vessel! It’s privately owned, by Erionalis Scouting Troop 694 ‘Starchasers’! We’re operating perfectly legally. Now, if you’ll let us be, we’ll be leaving back to Erionalis at our own pace.”
Ander moved to close the connection but the corporal said something before he could. “I know how scouting troops work! All the property of the troop is owned by the master organization. And if I recall correctly, the master organization is owned by the government. Now, begone!” Of course, he was speaking of how Foxicean scouting troops work; Erionalii troops operated completely differently.
The connection was closed by the other ship, but Ander didn’t change anything. “We’ll just move along as we have been. I doubt he’ll fulfill his threats to—”
The ship shook wildly as a boom resounded across. An error flashed, warning them that they had taken fire. And a second later, another big red warning banner announced that the Alcubierre Drive had malfunctioned and had slammed into activation, causing them to fly straight forward from where they were.
“Lylah, get the drive off stat!”
“On it!” she said. She hit the deactivation button—and her panel crashed, the screen going black before a reboot cycle. “Crap! The drive’s locked!”
“What’s happening? Where are we going?” asked John Buskin, blasting onto the bridge.
Anybody could read the navigator on the screen. Ander gulped. “The Northern Gap.”
________________
Chapter Eleven - The Northern Gap
“It is an odd condition, isn’t it? Here we are, in a little box of systems, cut off from the rest of the galaxy by a remarkably even distance of three to six hundred light-years. The outer edge is perfectly flat. And, to top it off, every single system in this box has at least one habitable planet, when we see almost no potentially habitable systems in any parts of the Far Realms anywhere near the Gap.
“And yet, do we explore it at all? No! We have ships that can go, one, two, three parsecs—or even more—in a single day, yet nobody has been intrepid enough to see what’s on the other side. We get reports of ship sightings in the Far Realms almost every week, yet nobody goes to make first contact. We have nearly one-hundred and fifty known ships that have flown into Inhabited Space from the Far Realms, yet nobody ever tries to figure out why.
“Why is this? Why do we not cross the Northern Gap to investigate ship sightings? Why do we not venture past the Southern Gap to find the origin of those derelict ships? Why do we not march forth from the BRICK Dynasty into the Eastern Gap to find the origin of the Scavenger’s Toolbelt? Why do we not fly beyond the confines of the Western Gap to find the creator of the Homaric Plate? It’s unexplainable. It’s almost as if those who can fly across those Gaps are afraid to, as if something clutches their minds when they contemplate it. I tell you, it’s not normal.”
—Doctor Ronald Lower of Merionalis in an interview with reporters from the Gozian International Tribute on August 23rd of the 497th year post-Blot, the day the Kolyan was run off of Foxicea into the Northern Gap.


It had been a really bad day for the officers of the Kolyan. To start with, they couldn’t unlock the Alcubierre drive that day, which meant that they had flown another 5 light-years and 18,193 AUs into the Northern Gap. The crew was also getting really irritable, which meant that keeping them on their tasks with the loosey-goosey casual leadership system was getting progressively harder. Ander had never instituted the militaristic chain-of-command he had recommended a month earlier, deciding to wait and see if it was actually needed. It hadn’t been at the time, but now, twenty-two days out of Foxicea, it was becoming apparent that the crew would need stronger direction. Thus, Ander had ordered everybody to the cargo bay for a whole-crew meeting.
Something Ander had never noticed was how odd the cargo bay looked now, a mish-mash of different things that they couldn’t put in other rooms. In the back right corner were stacked a washing machine on top of a dryer, directly next to the heavy-duty ship’s door for entering into engineering. On top of that stack sat a speaker designed to look like an old-fashioned radio that was sometimes used to play music or the news when the munible was not in use. A carpet had been laid on the floor by the girls, which was now much regretted by the same party due to the amount of maintenance it needed. Along the right and front walls were two couches with a gap for the right hallway door that could fit everybody if they were willing to get really familiar. A television hung on the back wall, a contribution from Maddic’s parents who didn’t understand that their ansible wasn’t fast enough to stream video. Sometimes people watched movies and television shows that had been saved on Shiplife (the streaming service, not the IT software, although they were sold by the same company) or played video games with it, but generally they synced it to the ship computer so they could see what the people on the bridge were doing. Along the rest of the back wall sat various equipment for playing music—guitars (both electric and acoustic), two guitar amplifiers, a synthesizer, an 88-key keyboard and a 61-key keyboard, three microphones, a subwoofer, and a mixing board, bookended by two speakers. All of this was played, usually daily, by the various crewmates who had a musical bent. The left wall was left bare, with only a huge ship’s door with a big alarm over it.
All of this contrasted with the construction of the cargo bay itself. The floor, where visible, was a plate of metal. The walls were made of the same metal but were corrugated. Both the floor and the walls, being metal, were slightly dented and somewhat rusty. Above the couch on the right sat the huge power connector, which had a surge protector on it that split it into twelve typical 225-volt plugs of the Gozian style, of which all twelve were in use. Two thin flexible metal pipes ran from the back of the washing machine into a sketchy water connection via a hole in the wall that Peter had cut, which had had sharp edges until last week when he finally sanded them. An industrial-style fluorescent light in the ceiling lit the room entirely too brightly for comfort. Next to that hung a small microphone from the ceiling which was used for the internal comms that occasionally picked up interference from the fluorescent light, rendering it useless—and good luck trying to get anything coherent when the music people played music. A utilitarian touchscreen panel next to the right hallway door had some ship controls and had housed the internal comms speaker until Agatha decided to jerryrig it into the music people’s speakers so they could tell when they were being hailed. The whole room overall had a very odd appearance, but the crew of the Kolyan found it quite adequate for their purposes.
Ander had been waiting for Yelipson Nazha’el to arrive. He was a nervous, unassuming character, somewhat skinny, pale, freckled, red-headed, with transparent-fronted, rather generic glasses that bestowed upon him his nickname—Glasses. Ander had to look up a touch to look into his eyes, but, Ander being 5’ 7”, that was not much of a feat. Yelipson was a nerd, completely inadequate in social spheres, but an absolute genius. It was believed by some members of the crew that he knew more about the theory that ansibles and transables were built from than anybody else in Inhabited Space. He had a mullet, which he thought would help him look less nerdy, but which completely failed in that task. He came in now, apologizing to Ander with his unconfident stutter.
“I’m s-sorry, s-sir, I wanted to t-t-try s-some-something to get the WDD un-unlocked,” he managed, nervously wiping his glasses. “It didn’t wo-work, and it m-made me late. I’m sorry.” He hung his head a bit. 
“No, no, no, you’re completely fine,” said Ander. “It was a worthy effort, even if it failed, and I’m not angry with you. This meeting is important but it’ll be fast, and it’s not like we have anything else to do right now. Go sit down, and don’t call me sir.”
Ander conducted a quick head count. Yelipson squeezed in with Veril, his best friend, on the far arm of the couch on the back wall. From there to the other end of the other couch, there sat Star, Bendor and Alexina, Kefon, Emar and Lexanra (much to their distaste), Eldrae and Andrea (the latter in the former’s lap), Lylah and Ander, Maddic, and Peter. The rest—John Buskin, Feil, Alexa, and Agatha, chose to sit on the floor and avoid the squeeze. Ander saw that everyone was present and began to speak.
“News has come to me, as it always does, and it tells me that we’re starting to have difficulties keeping everybody on-task due to authority disputes,” said Ander, looking around. “I won’t name names, but some are worse than others.” Bendor and Veril looked away. “Thus, I have decided to implement something that we—by this I mean the leaders—thought up a couple of months ago. We need a—somewhat—formal chain of command, military style. Everybody will be put under certain officers. If your officer tells you to do something, you will do it, no matter how stupid you think it is or how much you don’t want to do it. Any questions?”
Nothing. “Alright,” he continued, “I have to lay out how this will work. Each person will have two or three officers over them. You will do what they say. If you believe that they are being unfair, asking you to do the impossible, or giving contradictory orders, let me know directly and I will handle it myself. You will not backtalk them. Is that clear?”
“Yes, Ander, go on,” said Feil. “Let’s get this done.”
“Right. Well, there will be four levels of command. I, as the captain, am at the top. Beneath that are my lieutenants: Maddic, and whoever is the Female Brigadier, i.e. Andrea. Do whatever they say, unless it contradicts a direct order from me. I’ve decided that Maddic is Full Lieutenant and Andrea is Half-Lieutenant; all this means is that if they give you orders that are directly contradictory, obey Maddic over Andrea. Under them are the sergeants. They have command, under me and the Lieutenants, of a shift each.” Shifts were eight hours long, and there were three in a day. “Our sergeants are Eldrae, over 0600 to 1400; Peter, over 1400 to 2200; and our favorite mogul of the night shift, Agatha, over 2200 to 0600. If you have any difficulty with somebody else, take it to your sergeant, not them. Any questions so far?”
“Does this replace our authority in Scouting?” asked Veril.
“No, it does not.” In Erionalis Scouting, different levels of achievement were called “authority” and affected whom you could command, assuming they had no specific level called “rank” such as First Officer. The levels of “authority” had various military names: for example, Ander was a Lieutenant General, Andrea was a Half-Lieutenant, and Veril was a Major General. “You maintain your level of authority separately from the rest of the ship. However, while onboard, my new scheme overrides any previous level of authority.”
“How do we factor into all this?” asked Feil, referring to the adult leaders. “We weren’t mentioned in your new scheme.”
“Well, technically, you’re supposed to be separate from the rest of us,” explained Ander. “You do help us with some of the bookkeeping, but other than that you just supervise and make sure we don’t devolve into hopeless rapscallions. So I’ve decided to keep you outside the formal chain of command. Your position on board hasn’t changed.”
John Buskin huffed. “Hm, well, I don’t like it. But it seems to be fine for the time being.”
Ander looked at him. “And so it shall. Anyhow, I would like to say that this setup isn’t set in stone. If deemed necessary, I or my lieutenants can and will promote or demote people if it better fits our ends. I do want to say that this setup isn’t the most formal. I’m not adding extra ceremony to our daily lives. I’m just showing how questions are supposed to go up the chain and commands come down. It’s meant to make communication easier and to reduce conflict. If the lieutenants or sergeants wish to extend this scheme, they are permitted to do so as they wish, so long as it does not override what I’ve said. Is that clear?” Ander looked around; nobody volunteered anything. “Right, then, that’s all I’ve got to say. Get on with your day and remember the scheme.”


✸   ✸   ✸


Lylah was walking down the corridor later that day on her way down to the cargo bay. She had just finished kitchen duty for lunch—really the meal served at 1430 hours, given that conventional meal names mean nothing in the dayless, nightless eternity of space. At the end of the corridor, the political quarter—Bendor, Veril, and Star—was speaking in hushed voices; but, with the metal walls, the words echoed easily to her. The political quarter was generally up to something interesting, so Lylah listened in to see what they had to say.
“Well, I tell you what, it’s not natural,” Veril “General” Gem was saying. “The captain putting others over us? It’s not natural, I tell ye. We have as much right to be in command of others as any of them.” Veril had long since picked up some stereotypical or archaic Britishisms from Peter.
“Oh do shut up your mutinous mouth, General!” said Bendor. “You do realize that those he’s put over us are good at their jobs? Andrea, Peter, and Maddic are natural leaders, and Eldrae and Agatha are exceedingly pragmatic when it comes to work. It was very reasonable of him to put them over us.”
“Aye, Corio, and he’s probably trying to keep us in check,” said Star, who mispronounced Bendor’s nickname, “Corpo,” as “Corio” on a regular basis. “We’ve not been the most subordinate of his crew members.”
“Hmm, indeed, you both are right,” said Veril. “But I still don’t like it. Doesn’t seem fair, wot! Oh, hello, Lylah, if it isn’t our little Lobbyist.” Lylah had come up upon them at that moment.
“Oh, hello, my little mutineers-in-the-making!” said Lylah. “I’m glad to see you’re keeping the creative juices flowing. I wouldn’t recommend fighting with Ander; I hear he does a hundred puchups in a row without stopping—every morning! You’d be blown away if he had to put his foot down.”
“You’d be right,” said Bendor. “I can confirm; I caught him doing it when I went to grab something from the barracks. So that’s why we’re not going to go against his orders—right General?”
Veril had a rolling-his-eyes vibe about him even as he tried to look perfectly sincere. “Yes I will, I swear down! I mean—I won’t, arghh—you know what I mean.”
“Well, you better, because Ander shan’t deal kindly with you when we’re at least twenty days out to any kind of civilization,” Lylah happily pointed out. “So you either do what you’re told or get blasted to bits.”
“Yes, yes, we know,” said Veril.
“Also, Gem, don’t you have your shift now, if I recall? Peter could probably beat you almost as brutally as any beating I’ve seen. And I was beaten, with a whip, so perhaps that means you might want to scram.”
Veril didn’t reply. He just ran. Lylah turned to the other two and said, “I recommend both of you get some sleep. This is your free shift, if I recall, and there’s not that many opportunities to sleep during the busy shifts, so if you want to be a functioning human being you better do that.” Lylah left to the cargo bay.
After she had gone, Bendor said to Star as they walked up the corridor, “Man, she really does have an air of command about her.”
“Sure, Corio—I just hope I’m never on the receiving end of her scorn! She’s bloody beautiful, though.”
“Maybe to a native Elladii like you, but to me that charm just means trouble.”


✸   ✸   ✸


Kefon knew things were going south from the get-go. It had been twenty-three days since Ander’s announcement changing the chains of command, and they still had yet to get the Alcubierre Drive unlocked. Forty-five days in space was not something an 80-ton explorer like the Kolyan was designed to do. And Kefon had seen the supply closet—they were low on everything, but most critically food. They had mere days of food left now, and Kefon suspected they were neither serving full portions nor feeding everybody. They were slowly starving.
In that vein, romantic energies were running high upon the ship, a burst of previously unexpressed feelings pouring forth to avert the possibility of dying before you could tell your crush that you loved them. Seemingly all the girls were being bombarded. Lylah had been told that she was loved by two different boys—and she said that one of them went on to say the same to another girl! Even Alexina had received an admission of love, and she already had a boyfriend, which went poorly. The only girl to escape—so far—had been Eldrae; there seemed to be an unwritten rule to leave the captain’s sister alone.
If Ander really wanted Kefon to obey that rule, he would have written it down. Kefon had long had a crush on Eldrae, since before they left Erionalis, but he had never said anything. But today he decided that was going to change. It was probably now, or never, since they were probably going to starve in space. Even if she got mad at him for it, telling her how he felt would be worth it.
Finding a private place to talk on such a small ship was effectively out of the question, and just finding her was hard enough. For how little the ship was, it was always remarkably difficult to find someone when you needed them. But while going down the right-side hallway, he saw her, walking past him towards the bridge. He felt as if he were struck, a ripple traveling through his body, and suddenly he was a lot less confident that this was a good idea. But he was going to do it anyway.
“Eldrae, can— can I talk to you?” She stopped and turned around, looking at him and inclining her head; concern was written on her face. He took a deep breath and then continued. “I know this probably isn’t a great time, but I just wanted you to know, I— I really care about you, and— and—” He couldn’t think of anything else to say; he had run out of words. He looked down at his feet in embarrassment. “I’m sorry.”
“Kefon, don’t be sorry,” There was a catch in her voice. Kefon looked back at her, and when he saw her face it looked like she was about to cry. “And— and— I love you too.” She burst into tears, and he wrapped her in a hug. “Thank you so much.”
Kefon was starting to cry too. “Of course, Eldrae,” he said. “I just wish it wasn’t like this.” That they wouldn’t die here, alone in space! “Why is it like this?”
“I don’t know, I don’t know!” she wept. “What did we do to deserve this?”
“I wish I could tell you, Eldrae, I wish I could,” he said. Kefon reached out his hand to caress her cheek, and she rested her head in his. “But all I think we can do is push on and enjoy what time together we can get.” He pulled her back into his arms, and she leaned in. “Thank you, Eldrae.”
“Of— of course, Kefon,” she said, and they cried.
Chapter Twelve - The Goza Stad
All is darkness,
Pinpoints of light flashing by;
All is quiet,
Unceasing rumbling ever nigh;
All is life,
Death beckoning at every side.


We met only fools where the wise gather,
We met only nothingness at something unknown,
We found only pain in this search for peace—
I found only death in the hunt for a new life.
—All is Darkness, written by Lylah Florii of Mitsari, in the 497th year post-Blot


Lylah was alone on the bridge, sitting in the pilot’s chair. With most of the crew already extremely tired, and with nothing near them, it wasn’t neccessary to have a full compliment on duty at any one time. She was trying not to fall asleep—while she could handle the lack of food better than anybody else (One of the benefits of being a former slave), it was still tiring.
Maddic, Yelipson, and Agatha had managed to get the Alcubierre drive unlocked two days ago. All attempts to contact anyone—their parents, Erionalian or Elladian civil authorities, even the Foxicean government—had failed. The ship immediately turned around and warped back to Inhabited Space with a 122% overdriven ansible—as fast as they dared. But they probably wouldn’t make it. The food had run out two days ago now, and the water and air recyclers were dangerously far behind on their maintenance cycles. All they could hope for was that somebody would make it back to tell their parents. To make things worse, disagreements were popping up all over the place, and Ander’s working relationship with John was abrasive.
Beep! A red flash appeared on Lylah’s control pad.
“Oh no, what now!” Lylah punched in the code for the boy’s dorms into the intercom. “Maddic, we’ve got some sort of error code.”
Kefon picked up. Lylah could hear his bleary eyes over the glitchy intercom. He was trying to sound irritated but was failing miserably. “Who is this, and what business do you have punching in at this hour? People are trying to sleep, you know!”
“I got up two hours ago. There’s always people trying to sleep in the dorms. Anyways, this is Lylah on—”
“Who?”
“Lima yankee lima alfa hotel!” To herself, she added, “Ander was right—we really should see about getting the intercom replaced.”
“Jeez girl, you don’t have to shout!” Kefon was legitimately irritated now. “What do you want?”
“We have an error code on the computer. I need Maddic.”
“What?”
“Mike alfa delta delta india charlie! Get me Maddic!”
“Fine, fine, Lylah! I’ll get you Maddic! Goodness, you’ve woken up half the dorm.”
“Don’t care. Goodbye.”
Beep!
Maddic arrived a few minutes later and sat in the captain’s chair. “What is it?”
“It’s some error code I don’t recognize.” Lylah pushed the error over to Maddic’s control panel. 
Maddic frowned. “That’s not an error code. It’s an alert…there’s something nearby!” He pushed it onto the screen. Now they were able to read the full text of the alert:
“Unidentified ship nearby. Distance: 44,797 AU. Angle: Straight aft relative to destination. Velocity: 2613.1 Lux. Intercept time: 24 hours.”
Lylah furrowed her brow. “Can we get a reporter reading?”
“No; let me see,” said Maddic, mumbling as he dug through menus. “Main…sensors…reporter…settings…status report…oh goodness no!”
“What?”
Beep!
“The blasted reporter’s down! It just, quit! It says there was a capacitor failure.”
“Oh no! What should we do?”
“I don’t know…I’m going to get Ander and the leaders.” Maddic set the intercom to broadcast everywhere. “Hello, this is Maddic! I need all officers on the bridge! I repeat, all officers on the bridge!”
A crackly voice came over the comms. “This is Feil, I’m getting all the officers. What’s the issue?”
“Don’t bother,” said Lylah. “It’s impossible to understand anybody over these comms.”
“Will brief once on bridge,” said Maddic. “Intercoms are basically useless.”
“That’s fair,” said Feil. “Although I understood you. Will see you momentarily.” The intercom channel closed, and Ander immediately strode in.
Beep!
“What’s happening?” He demanded.
Lylah just wanted to bask in his presence, but unfortunately she had a job to do. Even more unfortunately, Maddic beat her to it.
“Something’s coming.”
“A ship?”
“Probably.”
“Can we avoid it?”
“Probably not. They’re coming on faster than we can safely do. Any more and we risk burning something out. We’re already on auxiliary influxes, and Yelipson swears he can smell something burning in Engineering sometimes. It might just be his brain that’s on fire—after all, Glasses is Glasses—but it’s a case in point.”
“We probably don’t want to avoid it anyway. Whatever they do to us is still probably better than starving to death.”
Beep!
Feil, Andrea, Eldrae, Alexa, and John stumbled onto the bridge; all of them except Feil looked like they had been brought back to life. Or perhaps brought to unlife—they looked worse than the pictures of Scourgii hiding in the back shelves of the library’s reference section. Well, at least they were here.
“What is it?” asked Feil.
“Something’s coming,” said Maddic. “A ship, in all likelihood.”
“Can we avoid it?” asked Feil.
“Those are the exact words I said forty seconds ago, and it seems unlikely.” Ander looked to the screen. “It seems to be coming from directly behind us, and they’re set to intercept in a day.”
“From whom?” said Feil.
“Unclear,” said Ander, looking perplexedly at the screen. “It seems we weren’t able to detect its reporter.”
“Our own reporter is broken,” volunteered Lylah. “Maddic said it was a capacitor failure.”
Beep!
John seemed to return to his stoic, vitriolic self. “God damn! First we’re shot, next we starve to death, and now this! When will it all end!”
“Don’t say that, John,” warned Feil. “There’s children here.”
Ander sighed with exasperation, pinching the bridge of his nose. Lylah thought she could see the beginnings of tears in his eyes, but when he looked up they were gone. “No, he might be right. Whether from God or from coincidence, it seems a pretty severe judgment to have this happen to us. Either way, we just have to make do. We can’t outrun them, we can’t dodge them, we can’t fight them—we just have to stay on, avoid scaring the crew if we can, and hope that they are friendly.”
“Whaddaya mean we can’t outrun them? This drive has done way more than this in the past,” said John.
Ander snapped completely. “Have you seen our WDD?” he shouted at the top of his voice at John, red-faced, contempt dripping from his words. Even John was taken aback. “It literally burning up wire by tiny flipping wire, and you ask to turn it up even more? How stupid can you be? You say that you’re acting in our best interests? The best interests of a tiny ship full of children who are STARVING TO DEATH? Children who have families?” Beep! “Children who have sweethearts and best friends back home, and your first thought when you saw a ship coming out of the Northern Gap was not ‘oh, maybe they’re a curious patrol from some group up there who could help us!’ but rather ‘oh, they’re probably out to get us’? And then you propose going even faster than twenty-two percent over what our sixty-year-old drive was designed to do? Are you trying to kill us?” Ander’s voice dropped to a low growl that was barely audible. His face was twisted with disgust and anguish. “I am disgusted with you. Get. Out. Now. I don’t want another stupid word out of you.”
John looked like he had been struck to the core. He didn’t say anything; he just stood there. Everyone else looked afraid for their lives.
“GET OUT!” snarled Ander.
John left quickly and quietly. Nobody had ever seen him act like that—but then again, neither had anybody seen Ander so infuriated.
“Everyone get back to work, or whatever it was you were doing,” said Ander. He didn’t raise his voice, but his voice was laced with a commanding presence. “Lylah, your shift’s over. I’ll be taking it over from you.”
Lylah got up quickly, afraid of this new Ander. He sat down in the pilot’s chair as everybody filed out. As she left the bridge, she thought she heard him crying.
Beep!


✸   ✸   ✸


Almost exactly twenty-four hours later, every officer and adult leader—along with Lylah, who sat on the floor with Andrea—was sitting on the bridge, waiting for the thing coming out of the mists of deep space to reveal itself to them. A deathly silence was maintained as the ship crept closer to them.
1.3 AU…1.2 AU…1.1 AU…
Beep beep! An alert flashed on the screen, reading:


WARNING: UNIDENTIFIED VESSEL APPROACHING WITHIN 1.0 AU. WARP TERMINATION IMMINENT.


The officers continued to sit and wait.
Beep!
Beep!
Beep!
Beep!
The sound of the computer over those last few minutes seemed to echo around the room. Then several beeps emanated from the computer, followed by an alarm:
Beep beep, beep beep! WOWOWOWOWOWOWOWOWOWOWOW!


CRITICAL WARNING: 0.03 AU (2.7m mile) MINIMUM DISTANCE LIMIT REACHED! WARP TERMINATING!


At the same time as the Kolyan’s warp was terminated, the map revealed that the blip had come out of warp as well. Ander enabled the camera and pointed it at the ship—and what they say was completely unexpected. Maddic would describe it to his children that it was like seeing a ghost ship.
It was a streamlined corvette with Elladian markings and named the TSN Goza Stad, performing the necessary retrograde and lateral burns to come up close alongside the Kolyan. It had prominent weapons, like most corvettes—but that’s where the comparisons with the average corvette ended. While the ship was painted white, almost every body panel was significantly rusty. Many were dented, and some had no paint on them all. There were some places where it was obviously missing body panels. The weapons were derelict, rusty as anything they’d ever seen, many bent, snapped, or full of holes. It was amazing that it was still operational, much less able to catch up to a ship much smaller and clearly newer than it. The Goza Stad initiated a docking sequence, setting off alarms—and the crew of the Kolyan was powerless to stop it.
Clang! Wowowowowowowow! Bum-psh! Another alert:


CRITICAL WARNING: DOCKING SEQUENCE COMPLETE.
Docked with: Taer’duolese Space Navy 04-0143 Goza Stad, manufactured 1298 P.B. (-801 years old), owned by Elladian Northern Gap Conquest Force.
FARDOCK COMMS: DISABLED
NEARDOCK COMMS: DISABLED
FARDOCK: CLOSED/LOCKED/BARRED/DEPRESSURIZED
NEARDOCK: CLOSED/LOCKED/BARRED/DEPRESSURIZED


For a second, everybody just sat still, wondering what to do. Then the computer beeped several times as different parts of the above alert changed, so that it read thus:


CRITICAL WARNING: DOCKING SEQUENCE COMPLETE.
Docked with: Taer’duolese Space Navy 04-0143 Goza Stad, manufactured 1298 P.B. (-801 years old), owned by Elladian Northern Gap Conquest Force.
FARDOCK COMMS: ENABLED
NEARDOCK COMMS: DISABLED !dropped
FARDOCK: CLOSED/UNLOCKED/UNBARRED/PRESSURIZED
NEARDOCK: CLOSED/LOCKED/BARRED/DEPRESSURIZED


“There’s no way on earth that that ship was built in 1298,” said Feil, breaking the silence as the computer beeped to tell them that the Goza Stad had attempted to send a message over the dock comms. “This ship has to have been tampered with.”
“Tampered with or not, the fact remains that it is real,” said Ander. “And, what is more, they’re sending messages to us, probably in Gozian.” He opened a comms channel. “Bendor Aviel, I need you on the bridge.”
“Wait, how do you know their sending messages?” asked Feil.
“That’s what that ‘!dropped’ there means,” explained Maddic.
Feil said, “Ah, I see.”
It took several minutes for Bendor to arrive, and he seemed stilted; Ander chose to ignore this, however. “Bendor, do you think we can trust them?”
Bendor was already his natural self again. “Let me think…” He seemed to be turning over options in his mind. “Well, as I see it, we have no option but. We’re starving and probably going to die if they don’t help us. Goodness knows there isn’t anybody else out here.”
“Well, I agree with you. I guess I have to go talk to them.” Addressing the ship, Ander asked, “How would I say, ‘this is Captain Ander ne’Ver of the Kolyan. Meet me at the dock’ in Gozian?”
After a moment’s thought, John Buskin said, “Yo tysehav tsiverdeskahav Ander ne’Ver tysaf Kolyan. Viaoisi tysila restohavala sel elou.”
“I disagree,” said Lylah. “I think the first sentence is good enough, but the second one would be more accurate and stronger as ‘Efexyey el tysila restohavala.’”
“Mmm, you might be right,” said John. “Either way, it’ll probably work.”
“I’ll do the second one,” said Ander, briefly enabling neardock comms, producing a beep from the computer. “Yo tysehav tsiverdeskahav Ander ne’Ver tysaf Kolyan. Efexyey el tysila restohavala.” He was careful to preserve the enunciation that Lylah and John had used. Afterwards, he closed the comms. “How’d I do?”
“Decently enough,” said John.
“Wait, Lylah, how did you become proficient in Gozian when you lived on Mitsari?” asked Alexa, who had remained silent until now. Everyone else was starting to stand up but stopped at a motion from Ander.
“You learn a lot of things as a slave,” said Lylah. “Although slaves are illegal federally, and are only supposed to come from Mitsari ‘stock’—how I hate that word—according to the shadow law of my province, pirates and less-scrupulous junkers will sell slaves from any nationality, so lots of languages get mixed up in the slave system. Not to mention that masters may speak many languages. You kinda have to learn it all if you want to be successful.”
“I see,” said Alexa.
“Everybody, listen,” said Ander in a loud voice. Quieting, he delineated, “I want everyone except Maddic, Andrea, Feil, and John Buskin to go back to your duties, unless they involve time in the cargo bay. We don’t need our entire crew to negotiate, and anyway we wouldn’t have room for all of us in addition to them. Alright, let’s go.” The crew exited the bridge, with the named persons leaving to the cargo bay.


✸   ✸   ✸


Everyone, per Ander’s recommendation, threw on their uniforms before quickly rendezvousing at the cargo bay. Ander pinged the other side of the airlock, and they pinged back. Everyone held their breath as Ander unlocked and unbarred the airlock, and waited for the people from the other ship to step throught.
They didn’t have to wait long, people in what were obviously military uniforms appearing inside the pressurized chamber behind the sliding door. Four men crossed the threshold. They were all obviously Gozian, about six feet tall, all but one pale-skinned with blue eyes. The last had brown eyes and was black, to the surprise of the crew of the Kolyan—while many cultures across Inhabited Space had darker complexions—indeed, Ander himself seemed cast of bronze—to be truly black was unheard of. But nobody had time to stare, as the man with the most stars on his shoulders looked at John Buskin and spoke in a thick Elladian accent.
“Your reporter says you are Turmerik, but your signs are Velstranic and you, you seem to be Aati. And with you are an Eleutherian, an Aliturian, a—I do not know who this girl is, perhaps Empathic Merion?—and another Aliturian! But I will trust your computer and say you are all of the Raj, of the Erionalian Province by what your computer says.” He took a breath. “I am Captain Luke Doair, and you are Captain—?” Luke was slightly taller the rest, and paler too, with short brown hair.
“He is not the captain,” said Ander. “He is—an officer, you could say.” Luke blinked. “I am Captain Ander ne’Ver, of the country of Erionalis, and I am ethnically Australi, not ‘Aliturian,’ whatever that is. These people are Leader John Buskin, Leader Feil el’Deman, Pilot Maddic Endigan, and Female Brigadier Andrea Bollahand.” He gestured to each in turn. “Our ship’s transable was critically damaged while exiting a spaceport as we were illegally fired upon by a military frigate, causing it to lock and throw us deep across what we call the Northern Gap. Our ship isn’t designed to be able to fly so far without being resupplied; we’ve run out of food and some other supplies.”
“I see. These men with me are First Mate Malachi Giradel, Pilot Fritheric Basileu, and Engineer Stephen Yeihalt. We have food supplies aplenty to share—we thought that this expedition would go longer than it has. Do you still have water? And how long have you been out of food?”
“Our water recycler still works, thank God,” said Ander. “If that had broken we’d all be dead. As it is we nearly are—we’ve been out of food for three or so days now. We should get these supplies unloaded as soon as possible.”
“That seems prudent, hmm,” agreed Captain Doair. “Have you anything damaged in the way of other equipment? And Giradel!” The black man stood to attention. “See to it that this ship is resupplied!”
“Yes sir!” said Giradel. He was cleanshaven and bald. “Captain ne’Ver, may I ask where the supplies closet is? I must assume you have one given that this cargo bay is furnished.”
“I can show you, Giradel” replied Ander, starting for the door. “Will you need anything here moved?” Giradel shook his head. “And Luke, nothing else is currently damaged, although our Alcubierre Drive is…fairly janky.”
“‘Janky’ means what?” asked Captain Doair.
“Unreliable. It works fine unless its, for example, shaken, or—” Ander opened the door and Bendor, who had been leaning on it, fell onto his hands and knees. Ander looked cross. “Bendor Aviel! What are you doing here? I told you to get back to your duties! Get off the ground!” As Bendor scrambled to his feet, Ander looked up to see about half of the crew of the Kolyan crammed into the hall. Even Alexa was there. “How am I supposed to rely on you all if you won’t even do what I say! Nevermind that there are people from the Far Realms onboard, you have to do what I tell you to.” Everybody began to try to quietly get away. “Emar el’Deman!” Ander barked. “Show this man the supplies closet! We are all going to help load supplies from the Goza Stad onto the Kolyan.”
“Far Realms?” asked Captain Doair after Giradel had left. The other two crewmates of the Goza Stad, as well as Andrea, Feil, Maddic, and John Buskin had all left. “And is your whole ship crewed by children?”
“On the first point, we’re from a place we call Inhabited Space, which is a box of space with lots of inhabitable planets inside surrounded by the four Gaps, which are huge stretches of completely empty space. Anything beyond the Gaps is termed part of the Far Realms, so you are a ship out of the Far Realms. Nobody really knows anything about the Far Realms, so meeting a ship from out here is extremely interesting,” Ander explained. “As for the other, we are a ship on an…unusual mission.”
“Are you a scouting troop?”
“Why yes! How did you know?”
Captain Doair laughed. “We do the same where we come from.”
“Ah, I see. I guess everything is the same everywhere.”
At this point Giradel had returned. “Alright, I want everyone to form a ‘fire brigade’ down to the supplies closet. We’re going to pass things along for maximum efficiency in these narrow corridors.” Ander took his place in the line and found himself next to Lylah and Captain Doair again.
“What’s happening?” she asked.
“These people are giving us food,” said Ander.
“Oh, that’s very nice of them!” said Lylah.
“Oh, Captain ne’Ver!” said Doair. “I think it best that you come back with us to our home to rest, repair, and resupply. If your transable is really in a bad way, then we can escort you there so you don’t have to use it.”
Ander considered this. On the one hand, John Buskin would hate it, and Ander was unsure how far he could trust these people. On the other hand, they were being incredibly generous, and they didn’t seem to have much choice. Apparently John Buskin had heard, as he gave a stern look in warning, but Ander agreed anyhow.
“Good! We can make sure you are properly resupplied for your return journey then.”
They began passing boxes of food up the line. Ander was tired. He had stopped taking his rations a few days before they had run out of food, and the work was hard. He kept pushing, however, and moved more boxes up the line. His mind began to fog and his knees wobbled, but he still passed more containers of food. But he simply couldn’t take it anymore—after eating nothing for six days, he simply had nothing left. He blacked out and collapsed on the floor.
________________
Chapter Thirteen - Trust and Trustworthiness
Never trust the man who saves your life after you’ve lost it.
—Erionalian proverb


“Only trust your crew and your C.O. when you’re in space. Everyone else might as well be the devil himself.”
—Captain Yohann Allaxarna of Dyskotsi, veteran of the Coalition-Shintaria War, in the 432nd year post-Blot


Trust is the greatest of all virtues.
—Elladian Proverb


Trust sparingly and be trusted liberally.
—Mitsarii Proverb


Ander awoke to the sound of footsteps, his eyes closed. He was somewhere soft and warm, and he was darned comfortable—except for a pricking in his arm that remained no matter how he moved it. He decided that he would simply—ignore it. Yes, that was it. He wondered how he got there, and thought back. And he remembered meeting Captain Doair, moving parcels of food around; and he remembered blacking out!
He opened his eyes and saw that he was in some sort of small medical room, white-paneled walls over a white vinyl floor, with a grey roof. It was well illuminated yet he could see no light fixtures. There was a second medical bed a few feet away; it was unoccupied. In between his bed and the other was an IV stand, which routed into his arm, which explained the pricking. On the front wall there were two rows of cabinets and countertops, where, he assumed, the crew of the Goza Stad—he had to be on the Goza Stad—kept their medical supplies. And between the rows, standing in the doorway, was Lylah, looking concerned.
“Lylah—what happened?” he asked, although he guessed he already knew.
“Oh, I’m glad to see you’re alright!” she cried, running up to stand beside the bed. Concern was written all over her face.
“Yeah, I’m alright,” he said. “Or, at least as far as I can tell. What happened? How’s the crew?”
“You blacked out while we were transferring the supplies,” Lylah explained. “It’s not been long, only about eighteen hours. Afterwards we continued transferring supplies and Beanpole worked with their pilot to change heading, since we’re still docked. And that other ship’s crew, they’re really very kind.
“And our crew is doing okay. Everyone’s worried about you but other than that they’re fine. Now that they have food in them they are all doing a lot better.”
Ander’s stomach growled and he sat up. “Well I might not mind some food myself. Although first I should go check on the crew to see how they are doing.”
Lylah looked doubtful. “Well, you’re supposed to rest and stay in bed for a few days. And work is out of the question.” At Ander’s look she continued, saying, “But I suppose you can come out to the bridge.”
Ander slid over to put his feet on the floor. “Here goes nothing,” came mumbling out of his mouth. He pushed himself up, and stumbled when he took one step. Lylah put her arm around him to catch and support him.
“Well, it looks like I might need help getting there,” he laughed. She blushed and laughed along with him as they walked to the bridge. 
When they arrived, they found Andrea had taken the bridge and Maddic, Yelipson, Emar, Feil, and Eldrae were there with her. They were talking in low voices and tension was in the room, but that melted away when Ander and Lylah walked in. Instead, cries of joy replaced their mutterings.
“Ander!” Eldrae shouted. “You’re okay!”
“Well Spunks, at least as far as I can tell,” he answered. “Rather weak, rather hungry, but I do appear to be okay.”
Eldrae laughed. “Any man is okay with a pretty girl to lean on!” Ander and Lylah tried very hard not to look at each other; if they had, they would have seen that both of their faces were burning. He tried to step away, but in doing so Ander nearly fell down and was forced to hold on to her even tighter, to the laughter of the bridge and his embarrassment.
Andrea, with a bit of a smirk, stood up and said, “Well, captain, you have the bridge,” and sat on the floor while Ander, with Lylah’s assistance, went to take the captain’s chair.
After Ander sat down, Lylah moved to leave. “Where are you going?”
“I’m going to get you some food,” she said. “After all, you yourself said you could use some!”
Ander smiled and said, “Thank you.” Lylah left up the stairs towards the kitchen. Then he looked at his panel and inspected the ship’s status. The Alcubierre Drive was powered off—that was probably a good thing—but the ship reported being in alcuwarp. That figured; they were probably docked with the Goza Stad for escort, by Captain Doair’s kindness. Ander commented on this. “I assume we’re in alcuwarp via the docking with the Goza Stad?”
“Yeah, we are,” Maddic said. “Their ship is pretty darn impressive, it’s going insanely fast.”
“You mean that rusty hunk of junk is fast?”
“Actually sir, it’s really fast. Mind-bendingly fast.” He pulled up the ship’s general stats on the screen.
Fuel: 71%
Power Core: POWERED ON (!wdd)
Auxiliary Power: 94%
Speed: 3315
Location: Far Realms/Northen Gap


WF_0: UNPOPULATED
WF_1: POWERED DOWN
WF_2: UNPOPULATED
WT_0: UNPOPULATED
“God!” Ander exclaimed. “Three thousand three hundred and fifteen lux? That has to be incorrect. Are the sensors broken?”
“No, that’s correct. The sensors are working as normal,” Maddic explained. “I had Yelipson figure out what speed of drive they must have to be going that fast, and he says it must be roughly a 1,300-base transible. Absolutely mind-blowing how fast it is.”
“Especially considering how they’re towing us,” Ander added. “That ship must be much faster than we’re even going now when it’s flying by itself.”
“Explains how they caught us!”
“Certainly does.”
Feil had been looking like he wanted to talk to Ander, and now he took his chance. “So how are you feeling?”
“I’m alright,” Ander answered. “A little lightheaded, but I’ll be fine. How has the crew been?”
“Worried but fine,” said Feil. “And our new saviors don’t really come off as trustworthy to a lot of people. There’s quite a lot of tension right now.”
“What do you think about them? And Emar, Yelipson, Eldrae, I’d like your thoughts as well.”
“I’m…hesitant,” Feil replied carefully. “I value the benevolence they’re showing us. But sometimes, they seem almost too kind. As if they are trying to trick little children. But maybe that’s because they simply are kind, and not because they’re trying to do something nefarious.”
“It can’t be that,” emphasized Emar. “Everything they’re doing screams suspicion to me. I appreciate the food. I appreciate the medical assistance they’ve rendered you. But I think they are trying to do something to us and we won’t like it. Why else are they towing us off to God knows where rather than helping us fix our ship and sending us back to Inhabited Space?”
“Well that’s obvious,” Eldrae said. “We’d run out of supplies before we made it back. Anybody with a soul would at least take us back so we could live.”
“But how will we get back?” Emar replied. “As you said, we’d run out of supplies before we got back!”
“Maybe they’ll escort us back?” Eldrae said hopefully; to this, Emar just grunted. “Doubtful.”
Yelipson spoke up for the first time. “Might they not need to bring us to their planet because of their standard patrol protocols?”
“That’s true,” Ander said. “It’s not every day a random ship comes blasting into your space. Or near your space, for that matter. As you said, bringing us back would probably be mandatory protocol.” Feil and Eldrae nodded, and even Emar seemed to consider it.
“But even then, that doesn’t mean we have to necessarily trust them,” Emar continued. Ander thought he sounded like a dog with a bone—too dedicated to his cause to change his mind. “Protocol isn’t always safe, especially for others; just like what happened to us near Foxicea. That man was following protocol, but he nearly killed us. He might still be the death of us yet.”
Lylah had entered the room just after Emar had started speaking and started walking to Ander. She had something in her hand, which Ander suspected was food for him. She handed him it, which indeed turned out to be a sandwich. “Here you are,” she said.
“Thank you,” he said, and he smiled. She laughed a little.
“You’re welcome,” she said, and smiled back.
“So what do you think?” Ander asked. “About our new saviors, I mean.”
“Well, I think the protocol idea is probably correct,” Lylah answered. “It would be pretty stupid to simply let strangers go inside of your space, at least if your goal is governance and not anarchy.” She paused, seeming sad. “Of course, there is no guarantee that that is actually their goal. But”—and she said this as a sigh—”there is also no real reason to say it isn’t. We just can’t know. And we have no other option, anyway.”
Ander was relishing the sandwich—he was really hungry! But he found a moment to answer her. “I agree, overall. Eldrae had also said what you said about the reality that we can’t do anything but go along with them. But, I do believe Emar has something, in that we can’t necessarily trust them wholeheartedly. Caution is in order, I do believe.”
“That would be the path forward, in my opinion,” said Feil. “And Alexa would say the same. I don’t know what John will say, but I doubt he’d complain too much about this course of action.”
“Well, fairly, it’s not so much a course of action as intentional observation,” said Maddic. “Not much we can do as a tiny unarmed explorer against a corvette much faster than us. They seem to have no weapons, but I doubt they are genuinely unarmed after seeing the speed of the Goza Stad.”
Ander nodded his head. “Agreed. So all we can do now is wait and see what they do.”


✸   ✸   ✸


After a few minutes the Kolyan was hailed by the Goza Stad. Ander looked at Maddic, who nodded, and he picked up the transmission. “This is Captain ne’Ver of the Kolyan, acknowledging transmission.”
Captain Doair’s thickly-accented voice came through the static intrinsic to radio communication during alcuwarp. “Captain Ander ne’Ver! I’m glad to see you’re doing alright. We were worried when we saw you were missing from the medibay.”
“Thank you Captain,” Ander answered. “I wanted to see how my ship and crew are doing. They are my responsibility, after all.”
“A noble sentiment. I am glad to see those from the Raj are still honorable despite the long separation from the crown. But, nevertheless, I would advise you not to exert yourself! You need some time to recover and regain your strength. The leader who takes a week off when he needs it often gets more done than he who pushes through his exhaustion and finds himself staring at the bottom of his barrel.”
“Quite true indeed, Captain. And thank you, sir, for your concern. But my place is with my crew. As a fellow captain, I’m sure you understand. And as things stand, I doubt there is much for me to do except supervise the operations of the ship. I can rest and stay onboard the Kolyan.”
“I trust you will do as you say, Captain Ander ne’Ver. You are an admirable man. This is Captain Luke Doair, signing off.” Captain Doair terminated the transmission, and the Kolyan’s main screen resumed its default mode.
“Well, that was nice,” said Eldrae.
“‘Nice’ doesn’t mean ‘good’,” Lylah muttered. “Lots of people who seem like nice people are really evil at heart.” She sighed. “But there’s nothing else to do. We are entirely at their mercy, if they have any.”
“Well I hope they do!” said Eldrae. “It would be pretty terrible otherwise.”
“Indeed,” said Ander. “Feil, what do you think of what they said?”
“It’s nothing much beyond what we already said, in my opinion,” he said. “If they’re evil, they’re at least polite in the meanwhile. Honestly all I see in him is a professional acting professional. Which, of course, means very little. Lots of professional people have done terrible things.”
“This is really a miserable situation,” said Maddic. “It would be wonderful if we could believe they are simply trying to be kind while following protocol, but we can’t afford to. But at the same time, we also can’t afford not to go along with them.”
“It’s an affront to human sensibility, all of it,” said Eldrae. Ander felt sorry for her; this was a lot more than she should have to go through. “We can’t even trust kindness is kindness.”
Ander sighed. “But whether or not they are trustworthy, we can do nothing but trust them. Let us hope they merit it.”
________________


Chapter Fourteen - Outcast Island
Write the poetry later because I cannot be bothered


Six days had passed since the Kolyan had been run down by the Goza Stad, and surprisingly, to some at least, nothing bad had happened. Many people had no trust for Captain Doair and his crew and were simply along for their own survival. Maddic himself was unsure. He had chosen to refrain from commenting during the debate on the bridge, mostly to avoid shaping people’s opinions because of his seniority, but also because he was divided in his own opinion. Part of him, like Eldrae, just wanted to believe that they were kind people helping them out. And a part of him loved the technological superiority of the Goza Stad regardless of their intentions. 
But their trustworthiness couldn’t be verified, and Maddic could not forget that. Even if they were following protocol, they could still be bad people. The whole crew could remember how it was one Corporal, technically following his protocol, that sent them all hundreds of light-years into the northern gap. And while they had been kind so far, wasn’t the first thing a parent teaches their small child is that a kind stranger is often a grave threat?
And why did they have such odd manners of speech? Calling Australis “the Raj” was, at best, unusual; lots of people, additionally, would claim that it was offensive. Whose Raj was it? Australis was not and never had been anyone’s dominion—right? Maybe they were referring to somewhere else, like Mitsari. Mitsari in legend had been a vassal of Erionalis, or at least, in some of them. But that still didn’t make sense. And what was Velstranor? And why did at least some of them seem to be ethnically Gozian? Questions abounded as to who exactly these people were and where they hailed from, beyond just “the Northern Gap.”